American cable television channel TLC amplifies the voices of the LGBTQIA+ community by celebrating the channel’s diverse talent this June pride month. TLC will have a rainbow of TLC favourites, new shows, and specials highlighting lesbian, gay, and transgender voices. New shows include Kenny and Armando: Love is Love, showing the love story of 90 Day Fiancé couple Kenny and Armando so far, and My Pregnant Husband, which shows how couples experience the joy and challenges of a transgender pregnancy. Viewers will also get to tune in for a selection from TLC’s most well-loved shows, Say Yes To The Dress, a show that celebrates love in all forms regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation. The shows will air from June 13 to June 26. TLC Pride line-up: Kenny and Armando: Love is Love | Sunday 26 June at 18:00
Kenny and Armando, well-known from the hit series 90 Day Fiancé, met on an online support group for fathers. 90 Day Journey: Stephanie & Erika | Sunday 19 June at 18:00
After four months of dating online, YouTuber Stephanie travels to Australia to finally meet photographer Erika. Dragnificent! | 17-24 June weekdays at 19:00
Alexis Michelle, Bebe Zahara Benet, Jujubee, and Thorgy Thor, four of America’s favorite drag queens, come to the rescue of those in need of a major change for an upcoming life milestone. Nate & Jeremiah: By Design | Wednesday 15, 22 & 19 June at 21:25
Balancing their roles as design experts and dads, Nate Berkus and Jeremiah Brent show how to turn a money pit into a masterpiece. I Am Jazz | 13 – 24 June weekdays at 22:55
Although assigned male at birth, Jazz is a transgender female and has been living as a girl since kindergarten. My Pregnant Husband | Sunday 19 June at 19:00
Ari and Caitlin and Myles and Precious experience the joy of a transgender pregnancy when Ari and Myles, the men in their relationships, become pregnant. Say Yes To The Dress | 13-24 June weekdays at 12:00
Kleinfeld Bridal, a Manhattan-based salon that is arguably the world’s finest, is celebrating love in all forms regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.