Mamelodi Sundowns chair-person Tlhopie Motsepe says there is no chance of Pitso Mosimane returning to the Brazilians after he became a free agent this week, following his resignation from Al Ahly on Monday. The Sundowns boss was speaking at the league champions’ launch of Live Limitless, a youth internship programme that aims to give young students an opportunity to get work
an experience by working at the club for five months in five departments. “We have three very successful coaches, who have done so well for our football club.  All we can do really is, of course, coach Pitso being a successful South African coach, just to wish him well. I am sure wherever he goes he will continue to succeed.” said Motsepe He added: “It would not be right to think about” any other mentor for the club after their coaches “have done so well”. “We have found the perfect coaches,” said Motsepe. Mosimane spent eight successful and trophy-laden years at the Brazilians, winning five league trophies and the CAF Champions League. He left the club in 2020 after he was recruited by Al Ahly. The former Bafana Bafana coach resigned from the Red Devils this past Monday after a topsy-turvy stay in Cairo. Mosimane is back and is listening to offers from the Middle East and in the country. His business manager Moira Tlhagale confirmed this week that she has been inundated with inquiries from national teams and clubs, including from the PSL, regarding the services of Mosimane. It’s a known fact that only a few clubs in the SA top flight can afford Mosimane, who was reported to be on a R2.5-million salary. Motsepe also explained that they need to be bold in the CAF Champions League campaign next season in pursuit of a trophy that continues to elude them since 2016. “We have to be bold and I always say that as Sundowns we want to be successful in the Champions League, we want to win the Champions League. “Last season was a bit of a disappointment how we exited but there were a lot of positives that we can draw from the way the club performed and the games that we played, and the opponents that we faced. “We need to strengthen and ensure that as soon as we get out of the group stages, the mentality must shift and we must become more ruthless. I know that our coaches and sporting director are already working and thinking about how we can improve. We are very positive and optimistic about next season,” Motsepe said. For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here