Kelly Khumalo’s lawyer, Magdalene Moonsamy, maintains that her client is not a suspect in the Senzo Meyiwa murder. This after defence lawyer, Advocate Malesela Teffo, told the high court in Pretoria on Wednesday that a witness would testify that Khumalo allegedly killed the Bafana Bafana star “by mistake”. Teffo, who is the advocate for four of the five accused, alleged that the revolver came with Longwe Twala, who is the son of musician Sipho “Chicco” Twala. Longwe is also the former lover of Kelly’s sister, Zandi Khumalo. Speaking during a media briefing on Thursday Morning, Moonsamy said Khumalo feels prejudiced and would like to have her day in court. “We cannot be slamming allegations around without testing them. This is sensationalist. The intimidation of myself and my client has been longstanding. We are not going to fold our arms. We have been silent for too long,” said Moonsamy. According to Moonsamy, her client tried to save Senzo’s life. Insinuating that Meyiwa died in hospital. Moonsamy said Khumalo told her that she was praying for him to survive but later learnt that he had passed on. She said: “Kelly told me when Senzo was taken to the medical room at that moment she was praying and it is then she discovered that Senzo had passed. She tried to save Senzo’s life. Allegations that she did otherwise is preposterous.” Moonsamy said she will be meeting with Khumalo on Thursday evening to discuss a way forward. “We will be taking action following these allegations, I am meeting my client this evening. We want to know who is this eyewitness that will testify against my client,” she said. Khumalo has been keeping track of the trial although her lawyer was excused in court in April. The defence claimed Moonsamy would intimidate the witnesses. “Moonsamy is a watching brief and every time she goes and gives Kelly feedback. She is also getting our documents. These are classified documents of the court [that] cannot just be given to everybody. That’s my concern. “What if Kelly becomes a state witness tomorrow, but her watching brief is here. Why is Kelly concerned about a watching brief? Why can’t everybody in that house have a watching brief,” argued Teffo at the time. Judge Tshifhiwa Maumela asked Moonsamy to leave the courtroom where the murder trial of Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa was in progress. Moonsamy was observing the proceedings on Khumalo’s instructions, where the first witness, Sergeant Thabo Johannes Mosia, was giving testimony. Moonsamy spoke out during the briefing hinting that there is a need for her to watch over the proceedings for her client, more especially with unveiling of such allegations that Khumalo is the killer. “My client deserves to be represented,” she said. Also read: Teffo questions second docket in Meyiwa&#8217;s murder trial Judge orders Kelly Khumalo’s lawyer to leave courtroom Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.