Actress Xoli Zondi-Zamisa will bring women power back to the male-dominated eHostela. In her on screen comeback, Zondi-Zamisa will portray the young and fierce Maggy, who starts calling the shots at the KwaDukuza hostel in KwaZulu-Natal after the death of her kingpin husband. The widow is out for vengeance and takes on the ruthless gangster Ngwadi, played by Siyabonga Thwala, her husband’s best friend and murderer. Her husband was killed for trying to stop criminals operating from the hostel. “This time the storyline is based around three women who are trying to implement change around the hostel because the new gang killed my on-screen partner. “That is when my [character’s] head turned, and I just wanted to stand up for myself and everyone else to stop the gang from claiming more lives. “My man was induna of the hostel and he made sure that with everything that was happening around the neighbourhood, everyone would be taken care of and protected from harm and they killed that, our hope, my partner,” Zondi-Zamisa said. The actress said she could relate to Maggy’s eagerness to find justice for her husband by doing all the good work he had only dreamt of, and being an independent woman, but she could not relate to  her colourful make-up. “This season of eHostela is changing the game because this one woman, together with two other supportive women, are fighting and mobilising
the community to fight against crime. “It is sad that this is a direct fight between a widow and her husband’s friend and murderer,” said the actress. This season will feature Thwala, Tony Kgoroge, Nkanyiso Mchunu and Mduduzi Nombela. Television drama series eHostela returned on June 14 on Mzansi Magic. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 