Young Chefs and Young Bakers competitions by RCL Foods are set to rock the boat for aspiring culinary chefs. Aimed at rising stars, the competitions are among the biggest to be held in the culinary industry in 2022, with the top baker sure to walk away with R20 000 while the two winning team members in the Young Chef category will pocket R15 000 each. In total, the RCL is giving away R110 000 in the competitions that seek to kickstart the careers of the most talented and skilled participants countrywide. Regional competitions are also planned for Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, Western Cape, Limpopo, and Free State. Chef Brad Kavanagh, head chef at RCL Foods, said: “Providing an opportunity to compete fulfills a significant need in the industry, and the culinary community has been eagerly anticipating the return of the competition in 2022. “By providing a platform for both young chefs and bakers to showcase their talents, we are creating a positive, sustainable impact.” Culinary students between 18 and 27 years old are encouraged to enter for the competition. They will compete in teams of two for the first prize of R30 000, R20 000 for second prize, and those coming third will win R15 000. Two of the participants in each team ought to be enrolled at the same professional institution or currently doing an in-service programme focusing on culinary arts or professional cookery. The Young Bakers competition will be open to individuals who bake bread or baked confectionery as a source of income or are enrolled with a professional institution or an in-service programme focusing on culinary arts or professional cookery. The young bakers will be competing for the top prize of R20 000, second prize of R15 000, and third prize of R10 000 For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.