SuperSport United and Mamelodi Sundowns have agreed on terms for the permanent move of midfielder star Sipho Mbule as of effect from 1 July 2022 for an undisclosed fee, United confirmed on Friday. For the better part of the recently ended season, Mbule had been heavily linked with a possible move to Kaizer Chiefs but it now seems the deal fell through. Mbule, who joined the club’s academy in the 2015/16 season from Virginia Harmony Sports Academy and played just under 100 games for Matsatsantsa is now a Masandawana player on a deal believed to be over three years. The 24 -year-old played a crucial role in helping Matsatsantsa to lift the MTN 8 trophy twice in the 2017/18 and 2019/20 seasons and contributed immensely in Tshwane-based side’s historic CAF Confederation Cup journey, finishing as runners-up after losing narrowly to DR Congo’s TP Mazembe in 2017. Mbule’s magical long-range strike in the first leg of the final was nominated for goal of the tournament. He was rewarded by his peers for his magnificent and consistent performances in the 2019/20 season and scooped the SuperSport United Players’ Player of the season in the club awards. The Bethlehem, Free State-born midfield maestro has represented South African in all youth levels, the Under-17s, Under-20s and Under-23s and has been part of the Bafana Bafana squad. SuperSport United CEO Stan Matthews said: “We are sorry to be losing a gifted player like Sipho, especially at his age where his best is yet to come. “We tried all avenues to turn things around with Sipho, but in recent months it became clear that his heart and mind is not at our club and that it was best for us to part ways. We wish Sipho every success in football and in life and hope to see the best of him in the future as he truly has special talent that can light up the PSL and Bafana Bafana.” Also Read: Kaizer Chiefs part ways with veteran key star players For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here