Fighting for positions at the SA Football Association (Safa) is not good for the image of football in the country, according to highly respected former Bafana Bafana legend Lucas Radebe. The former Kaizer Chiefs defender was referring to the recent Safa elections where Danny Jordaan won by a landslide margin. Jordaan defeated Solly Mohlabeng and Ria Ledwaba who challenged him for Safa’s presidency. Radebe, who had a glistening career in the English Premier League with Leeds United, was recently appointed in the Confederation of African Football (CAF) technical and development committee where he will serve alongside African stalwarts Geremie Njitap of Cameroon, Senegal’s Khalilou Fadiga, and Zambian icon Kalusha Bwalya. “I think the Safa elections were a bit of a mess. Football should be the one that wins at the end of the day, but it was a bit disappointing to see what happened,” said Radebe. “Everybody expected a change which did not happen. But obviously football is football, people are still fighting to get in there for positions. I don’t think that is conducive, I don’t think people should be fighting for positions. “Football should be guided by the experience of those who played the game and involving other former players. It does not only enhance the game only – people listen to ex-players and new ideas as well.” Radebe, who is elated about his appointment to the CAF structures, added: “I am delighted to be involved in this manner, especially with one of the critical organisations in African football. We are trying to develop as a continent not just for boys, but girls as well. “The appointment came at the right time because I’ve always wanted to get involved and contribute towards football at this level.” He said the CAF technical and development committee has already held its first meeting, on Tuesday, where it presented ideas on how to improve football in the development stages on the continent. For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.