The Miss South Africa pageant is making a comeback to the Gauteng province after a two-year long journey in the mother city, Cape Town. The queen and her princesses will be crowned at SunBet Arena at Time Square in Pretoria, where Zozibini Tunzi also received her crown. Miss South Africa Organisation CEO, Stephanie Weil expressed her excitement in bringing Mzansi’s most loved pageant back to Gauteng and having the event during women’s month on August 13. The top 10 announcement will be made on Monday. “We are looking forward to having Miss South Africa back in Gauteng and at the SunBet Arena at Time Square. It is an amazing venue to host a competition such as this and one that caters for contestants, entertainers and the audience. “We’re also pleased to once again be holding the event in Women’s Month as the values of the Miss South Africa Organisation are closely aligned with what Women’s Month stands for,” said Weil. Time Square’s General Manager Ruben Gooranah said: “We are delighted that the Miss South Africa pageant is returning to Time Square and we look forward to hosting the lovely lineup of contestants this year. “We know that the pageant has many loyal followers so our entire complex, from the casino to our restaurants and hotel, are all gearing up to offer visitors their best experience. We wish each of the contestants all the very best.” This year’s Top 10 judges are radio presenter and personality and Miss South Africa 2015 Liesl Laurie, body positive activist Tracey-Lee Lusty Horwitz, Dentsu CEO Koo Govender, fashion designer Khosi Nkosi, True Love Editor-in-Chief, Makhosazana Zwane-Siguqa, actor Simoné Nortmann and actor and TV personality Thando Thabethe. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.  