Teffo, who is representing four of the five men accused of murdering Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa, has become a household name due to his colourful defence of his clients. However, his “unorthodox” approach has earned him both fans and critics. He has often butted heads with judge Tshifhiwa Maumela. This week, things got so bad between Teffo and Maumela that the judge told the advocate that he has a “noma siyafa” attitude, which, loosely translated, means “even if we die”. The two clashed over processes followed in court. Maumela accused Teffo of disregarding established processes and wanting to do things his own way. The Legal Practice Council followed up by issuing a notice to legal practitioners, reminding them of the importance of maintaining decorum in court. However, Teffo is unfazed. “Whoever feels that [he is disrespectful in court] does not understand law, there is nothing disrespectful about my diligence in defending my clients,” he argued. Meyiwa was murdered at the home of his then-girlfriend Kelly Khumalo in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni, in what the state believes was a botched robbery. Taking Sunday World through his journey from being a policeman to an advocate, Teffo says he has always hated injustice and bullying. He joined the police service in January 1995, after he was expelled from LM Mangope Agricultural College in Taung in 1993. However, his 19 years’ service as a policeman only fuelled his life-long dream to become a lawyer. He eventually summoned the courage to pursue his dream and obtained a law degree from the University of Johannesburg. “Growing up, my dream was to become a human rights lawyer and have the family I currently have,” he said, referring to his two sons and daughter. “I do not regret [my time as a policeman] as I learnt many things as a police officer. I became a board member of the Government Employees Pension Fund and union activist while in the police.” Teffo, who was born and bred in GaMashashane village in Polokwane, Limpopo, is a die-hard Orlando Pirates fan. He also counts Liverpool and Juventus as the football teams he associates himself with. To unwind, Teffo indulges in contemporary jazz and country music. He lists The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari by Ribin Sharma and My Own Liberator by retired judge Dikgang Moseneke as his favourite books. One of the low points of the Meyiwa trial was when Teffo was arrested in court on an unrelated matter. Chief Justice Raymond Zondo condemned the manner of  Teffo’s arrest, saying it was “totally unacceptable and showed disrespect” for the judiciary.  Teffo in full flight:  Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 