The Presidency confirmed a robbery took place on President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala farm in Limpopo in February 2020. But denied Arthur Fraser’s claim that the the President was involved in the missing “millions’. Said the Presidency: “The Presidency can confirm that a robbery took place at the President’s farm in Limpopo on or around 9 February 2020 in which proceeds from the sale of game were stolen. “The President was attending an African Union Summit in Addis Ababa at the time the incident occurred. On being advised of the robbery, President Ramaphosa reported the incident to the head of the Presidential Protection Unit of the South African Police Service for investigation.” The former State Security Agency director-general Fraser opened criminal charges against the President at the Rosebank Police Station on Wednesday. The allegations emanate from the alleged theft of over four million US dollars allegedly concealed at Ramaphosa’s Phala Phala farm in Waterberg, Limpopo. Fraser said Ramaphosa was in cahoots with “criminals” who were colluding with his domestic workers. “The President concealed the crime from the South African Police Service and/or South African Revenue Service (SARS*) and thereafter paid the culprits for their silence,” he said. The presidential statement stated that Ramaphosa said there was no basis for the claims of criminal conduct levelled against him and that he stands ready to cooperate with any law enforcement investigation of this matter. “President Ramaphosa remains resolute in leading the fight against corruption, restoring the integrity and capability of public institutions and overcoming the legacy of state capture, and will not be deterred by disinformation campaigns,” said the Presidency. Ramaphosa faces charges including defeating the ends of justice, kidnapping of suspects, and bribery. According to media reports in May, Fraser demanded that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) make arrests in a period of seven days, including that of the president. The former spy boss said in 2021 that he would expose Ramaphosa if given a chance to appear before the Zondo Commission of Inquiry in the State’s Capture hearings. However, he was not granted the opportunity. Fraser was painted by several witnesses as being behind the repurposing of the State Security Agency for the benefit of Zuma. He was called to give evidence but immediately put the commission and the country on high alert when he warned that if compelled to give evidence, he would be forced to reveal “state secrets” about presidents – past and present – as well as judges and parliamentarians. It is unknown if his veiled threat is what stopped the commission from pursuing his evidence. Former spy boss Arthur Fraser lays criminal charges against Ramaphosa To read more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 