Internationally renowned DJ Black Coffee has been going through a tough time, opting to delete a tweet he posted last week after realising that his followers got concerned about his wellbeing, the award-winning muso said on Friday. Addressing industry colleagues and music fans at Riky Rick’s memorial service at Imperial Wanderers Stadium in Illovo, Sandton, Black Coffee said: “Last week I was going through my own emotional turmoil. In my moment of weakness, I put out a tweet and then realised that people are concerned, so I deleted the tweet. “I woke up to Riky’s news and the first thing I thought of was my tweet. Riky saw my tweet and he called me. He said OG please, you are the strong OG. And now the strong OG is weak,” he said. The globe-trotting muso added: “I couldn’t take Riky’s death right. I was destroyed because I blamed myself so much.” Black Coffee also shared that watching the rap icon’s funeral online on Tuesday was the hardest things he has had to endure because he could not attend the funeral. “I never write speeches, I always try to speak from the heart but not today, I don’t have the heart to speak. Riky was a beautiful human being. He knew what to say to you to leave you feeling good, yet he was dealing with so much personally.” Black Coffee further shared that he was the older brother Riky would call for guidance, adding that the rapper, who allegedly died by suicide at his estate residence north of Johannesburg on Wednesday last week, had influenced his own style. He shared: “Riky was different, he was a special guy. You could see in how he walks in the room. You could see in the way he dressed. Riky was a style icon, Riky was my style icon. “When I want to put in an effort and dress up, and I am scared to be the light in the room and I want to down-dress, I always think what would Riky do.” Tears flow at Riky Rick&#8217;s funeral as friends remember him Boss Zonke of Kotini Big Brother evictee Vyno plans to make music like his idol Riky Rick For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 