KwaZulu-Natal has described the cannabis revolution as a game-changer for the rural economy and mass scale creation of jobs. But many villagers who have illegally cultivated the world-famous plant for decades as a livelihood for their families say they are treating the new developments with scepticism. “From what we’ve heard the commercial licence to sell cannabis is very expensive and it’s a strenuous process. Our other concern is the involvement of the government and politicians. As it stands, in a good month I make about R46 000 from selling to Gauteng and KZN customers,” said Zazi Shozi of Bergville in the KwaZulu-Natal midlands. Shozi said under the status quo, business was hampered by a number of external factors such as having to constantly bribe police officials for the product to reach its destination. “I don’t mind paying as long as the product arrives at the customer as quickly as possible. With the government comes red tape,” he said. Another cannabis subsistence farmer Delani Mkhungo of Okhukho, near Ulundi, said the regulation of the dagga trade would eat into their profit. “Once we have been recognised as cannabis commercial farmers, we will be required to pay VAT and other forms of taxes to SARS. The only thing that people want is for the authorities to release land and assist them in accessing markets,” said Mkhungo. KwaZulu-Natal is believed to have an ideal climate for cannabis cultivation. South Africa is the third-largest producer of cannabis in the world. According to the UN the country produces about 2 500 tonnes of cannabis a year and KwaZulu-
Natal leads the pack. Traditional farmers in the informal trade in marijuana include Rastafarians, traditional healers and subsistence farmers. A large percentage of them are concentrated in the province’s south coast, midlands, Drakensberg region, eMangwaneni, Zululand, Kokstad and Underberg. Sheldon Kramer of the non-profit organisation KwaZulu-Natal Cannabis Development Council said there had been a sudden surge in people getting into the cannabis business, mostly hemp growers. “The commercial and industrial cannabis complex is thriving in KZN and is providing upliftment for many poorer subsistence farmers. The current cannabis industry in the province is fast becoming one of the most advanced and progressive in the country, mainly due to a more relaxed attitude by authorities,” said Kramer. Meanwhile, the KwaZulu-Natal government has assembled a provincial cannabis committee, which is tasked with fast-tracking the development of the industry. Premier Sihle Zikalala said about 24 000 direct jobs would be created by the industry, injecting more than R30-billion annually into the economy.  Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.