Popular amapiano beatmaker DJ Jaivane was among five suspects arrested by the police for possession of an unlicensed firearm and discharging a firearm in public. Jaivane, together with four other suspects, was nabbed by the police for allegedly firing a firearm at the Westpark Cemetery in Joburg, where DJ Vintos was buried on Sunday. Vintos, real name Hector Buthelezi, died after being shot in a hail of bullets in what appears to be have been a hit carried out by an enemy in Jabulani, Soweto, a fortnight ago. Vintos was crossing a street to his shop after parking his blue Golf 7 R when unknown gunmen driving in a BMW X3 shot him over 13 times before fleeing the murder scene. According to a police statement we have seen, Jaivane and other suspects shot in the air several times apparently as sign of paying their last respect to the trail-blazing disc jockey. “Crime prevention unit attended to the shooting at Westpark cemetery where they arrested five suspects with four firearms, three of which were unlicensed. “Possession of unlicensed firearms and live ammunitions and discharging firearms in a public place. Out of five suspects, DJ of amapiano Luyanda Ndlovu 29yrs sap14 170/03/2022,” reads the police statement. Preliminary investigations, according to the statement, revealed that one of the unlicensed firearms was reported stolen at the Hartbeespoort police station in 2016. Gauteng provincial police spokesperson Mavela Masondo confirmed that Jaivane, one of the most sought after amapiano DJs, was among the five suspects arrested on Sunday. “Police can confirm that five suspects were arrested at Westpark Cemetery on Sunday 20 March 2021. The suspects are facing charges of possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, discharging of firearm in a public place,” he said. He said that Jaivane and the other suspects will appear in the Brixton Magistrate’s Court tomorrow  For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.  