Abandoned, a reality show on Mzansi Magic that explores the relatable theme of belonging, is coming back for season two. The show helps reunite children with their long-lost or unknown parents. Media personality and TV producer Phumeza Mdabe, who has been the host since season one, spoke to Sunday World on what to expect on season two. Mdabe shared that season one was more about introducing the show to the audience. “This season people are aware of the show and we are getting more young people coming forward. It’s not just adults who are abandoning children, but children who are abandoned whilst they are still children, which we did not have in the first season,” she said. The difference this season is that the producers get the permission from one parent to try and find a “lost” parent of the child. “Surprisingly, with this year’s episodes more people are looking for their fathers, which explains why more children come forward because of certain customs not done.” Viewers in season one saw Mdabe reaching out to her father who had rejected her. She said she has been able to move past that and has made peace with the circumstances of their relationship. “I wouldn’t say I get triggered by the different episodes because I have accepted the situation. I have a family and I would not want to put them through emotional trauma because of my relationship with my father.” The show also provides counseling to the affected parties. “If you are a parent and you left your child out there, you are more than welcome to write in so we can connect you with your child, because for us it is about building one home at a time,” she added. Abandoned Season 2 makes a return on Mzansi Magic on April 12 at 8pm. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.