Orlando Pirates and Royal AM are not off the hook yet after their cases were postponed by the PSL disciplinary committee (DC) on Tuesday night. Pirates have been charged by the league after a scuffle erupted when TS Galaxy boss Tim Sukazi was refused entry into his club’s dressing rooms at Orlando Stadium by Buccaneers’ officials and security guards. A video of Sukazi being manhandled went viral on social media and the PSL prosecutor has charged the club for the incident. A vocal Sukazi has vowed he will not rest until justice had been served. On the other hand, Royal AM, owned by reality TV star and socialite Shauwn “MaMkhize” Mkhize, have been brought to book for playing an ineligible player Philani Khumalo. He was fielded even though he was sitting on four yellow cards. MaMkhize’s side will appear before the DC on Monday to answer to the charges, Bucs case will be heard on March 23 and 24. PSL prosecutor Zola Majavu has assured that the cases will not be postponed any further. “The league’s case, meaning its testimony, against Orlando Pirates arising from its denial of the chairman of TS Galaxy entry to the stadium [Orlando] was finalised. The matter is now postponed to 23 and 24 March for further hearing, where at Orlando Pirates will lead its own testimony in defence,” said Majavu. “The DC issued an express directive that the matter will not be postponed further and both parties were directed to ensure that the matter is indeed finalised on those two subsequent dates, starting at 3pm.” Majavu added that Chippa United will also appear before the DC to answer to similar charges after they fielded Riedwaan Serfontein. The player was ineligible to play after he received four cautions. That matter will be heard on Thursday, March 3. For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.