A 19-year-old girl reportedly kidnapped by a 31-year-old man at her home in Kwamhlanga, Mpumalanga on Tuesday morning has been found and returned home alive. Police spokesperson Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said in a statement on Thursday that the police were informed of the whereabouts of the suspect at Enkangala district in Mpumalanga where he was arrested. Mohlala explained: “According to the report, on the said day at about 3am, five young ladies were traveling home in their vehicle after attending a function. As they arrived home, they were allegedly pounced on by an armed man who alighted from a silver-grey Toyota Legend 50, which didn’t have registration number plates. “It is further alleged that the said girl, who was later kidnapped, earlier called her mother while they were still on their way home, indicating to her that they were being followed by a suspicious vehicle. “They later thought the vehicle had stopped trailing them, however, the ladies were shocked when the man descended from his vehicle with a firearm in his hand as they arrived home.” It is alleged that the suspect accused the ladies of stealing some items from his liquor store. Mohlala said the mother of the said girl walked towards the gate where the women were already being held at gunpoint. The mother returned to the house to get a torch to search for the items that were apparently stolen. Upon her return, the suspect drove away with her daughter, leaving the other women in shock and disbelief. “It then dawned that the man orchestrated to kidnap the lady but then came up with stories just to cover-up his evil acts,” said Mohlala. “Thereafter, there were reportedly attempts by some members of the public to give chase, but all their efforts seemed futile. The matter was then reported to the police at Kwamhlanga and a case of kidnapping was opened. “The investigating team was put in place to track down the suspect before it was too late,” he said, adding that the kidnapped woman was reportedly blindfolded and repeatedly raped by the suspect. She was found at a fuel station at Menlyn in Pretoria early on Wednesday. A case of kidnapping with additional charges of rape and assault has been opened. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.