Kaizer Chiefs star midfielder Keagan Dolly has opened up about being given the opportunity by Bafana Bafana coach Hugo Broos to once again showcase his talent in France, this time with the national team. Dolly, 29, is part of the squad set to battle it out against Guinea at the Guldensporen Stadion in the city of Kortrijk, Belgium on March 25 before jetting out to face the world champions France at the Stade Pierre-Mauroy in the city of Lille on March 26. Broos has picked 23 players for the two away friendly matches. The former Mamelodi Sundowns and Montpellier winger spent three-and-a-half seasons, from 2017 to 2021, with the French club but only managed to score one goal, and created three assists in the 64 games he played for the Ligue 1 club. With six goals in 20 games to his credit for Amakhosi, there was no way the Bafana Belgian coach Broos could have ignore his exploits in the Premier Soccer League. “It would be good to go back and just share my experience with the boys, it’s a new team and we are going to be playing one of the top teams in the world,” said Dolly. “I didn’t expect to go back to France so soon, but it will bring back good memories to see the stadiums there. France has good players playing in highest leagues, it’s a good experience for us to go there and see how good we are at the top.” Dolly also shared what he knows about the city of Lille, where he often played during his tenure at Montpellier, saying that Lille is not one of the big towns, however, it is not far from Paris. “I played with a few players that also played at Lille [in my time] at Montpellier. And [SA striker] Lebo Mothiba grew up playing in the academy of Lille. He told me a few things about it, but most of the cities are quite similar. I played there a few times. “I know about the city and what the stadium looks like. It’s for me to guide the players there and help where I can. A lot of players will enjoy playing in France.” He added: “I believe every player should be proud to be representing the country. Since I’ve been a youngster and started playing football, I always wanted to be part of the Bafana set-up and [the call-up] shows that I’m doing well for my club [Chiefs].” Prior to joining his Bafana teammates, Dolly will feature for Amakhosi against Golden Arrows in a DStv Premiership fixture at the FNB Stadium on Saturday. Kick-off is at 7.30pm. Bafana coach selects his final squad for friendlies For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.