Big Brother Mzansi evicted contestant Gugu Bonga, known as Terry Treasure, told Lawrence Maleka during the eviction show on Sunday that she thought she had lost her sanity after being in the house for such a long time. “I’m back, it’s psychological warfare. In the house it’s all about mental strength more than anything,” said the 26-year-old, reflecting on her journey in the competition. A content creator and make-up artist from Joburg, Terry said she had fun, but would now like to expand on delivering more content. “I have already posted my first video since I got out of the house, but I also want to do yoga and get stretch classes involved. I feel like the body needs to be at its ultimate flexibility to achieve full sexual pleasure,” she said confidently. Terry picked her first day in Biggie’s house as one of her highlights. “For me that set the tone, knowing that so many strong personalities were in the house. I also feel that as an individual I have exceeded my expectations because I expected to leave around the fifth week.” Being in Biggie’s house means you have to work hard for everything, whether it’s food or treats, something she said she would miss, as well as being spoilt by Biggie. But walking around half-naked in the house was not a strategy, she emphasised, saying it was merely for overall aesthetic. She shared: “I am not a huge clothing person and for me, the more skin I show, the better. Walking around the house dressed in a certain way was not a strategy, it’s what I do.” In the house, everybody has alliances and Terry’s were Libo and Tulz, but when the conspiracy box was introduced, Themba also played a role of being one of them. “I am sure that Sis Tamara had my back, but people will not see it that way because of the teams, but in the end what happened happened.” When Terry was in the house, she had a love interest with Vyno but unfortunately he got evicted few weeks ago. Terry and Vyno have made their relationship official and are exploring it even further outside the confined space of Biggie’s house. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 