The third instalment of the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture, Corruption, and Fraud in the Public Sector report found reasonable grounds to suspect former president Jacob Zuma’s relationship with Bosasa was in breach of his constitutional obligations. It is alleged Bosasa paid R300 000 monthly to the Jacob Zuma Foundation. The evidence against the former head of state was brought forward by Bosasa’s former chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi. In a statement, the foundation argued the former president was denied the opportunity of neutral platform to give his side of the story. “It is now well-known that president Zuma was denied the opportunity of a neutral platform to put his side of the story in the so-called Zondo Commission,” said the foundation on Tuesday. “The application for the review and setting aside of the refusal by judge Zondo to recuse himself despite the relationship between him and president Zuma, which he has recently and inadvertently confirmed during the chief justice interviews, is a matter that is still pending before the courts.” The foundation said Zuma therefore “rejects” the findings because he was not afforded his right to be heard. “In these circumstances, such findings are obviously not even worth the paper they are written on.” According to the four-part report, corruption was Bosasa’s way of doing business. “Corruption was central to Bosasa’s business model. The evidence reveals that there was widespread corruption in the awarding of contracts and tenders to Bosasa, and its associated business entities or organisations, by government departments, state-owned enterprises, agencies and entities,” the report found. It states that the company suborned politicians and government officials including Zuma, Gwede Mantashe, and Nomvula Mokonyane. “Members of the national executive, public officials, and functionaries of various organs of state influenced the awarding of tenders to benefit themselves, their families or entities in which they held a personal interest.” The report suggests that the former president benefitted through having lavish parties sponsored by Bosasa, as well as the alleged payments to the Jacob Zuma Foundation. While the report recommends that law-enforcement authorities act against Zuma, Mokonyane, and other ANC officials implicated in the report, the foundation said Zuma would study the findings and consult his lawyers about his next move. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.