An explosive report into the affairs of the embattled Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) has painted a picture of an institution in disarray, where factions are slugging it out for control. The report by Anthony Staak, whom Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande appointed to probe the source and nature of the problems at MUT was released on Friday, two months after the institution’s suspended vice-chancellor Enoch Malaza parted ways with the university. The Staak report found that a culture of fear dominated MUT, which had led to the collapse of good governance. “Sadly, the interviews and submissions revealed that these deep divisions still remain and the university is far from becoming a forum for free expression of ideas and critical debate. When staff were interviewed in a group situation, there was a reluctance by people to speak openly about their concerns.” “MUT was described as a highly political space, comprising people with different agendas.” Staak further found that the two key people in the institution, the vice-chancellor and the chair of the council, didn’t have a cordial working relationship and harboured mutual mistrust. “Some of those interviewed characterised the relationship between chair and VC as hierarchical and lacking mutual respect, with the chair talking down to the VC and belittling his reports. The chair claims that he was merely responding to reports that were substandard and that he tends to be direct in his responses. However, one gains the impression that these criticisms were not always made in a collegial and constructive manner, and the approach was not supportive.” The probe also cleared Malaza of any wrongdoing. It was reported in the media last year that Malaza and university council chairperson, Morailane Morailane, were at each other’s throats, with allegations and counter-allegations of wrongdoing. Malaza was suspended by the council in April after allegations he awarded contracts unlawfully emerged. The department’s spokesperson, Ishmael Mnisi, said the minister will engage with the council on how the recommendations contained in the report would be taken forward.  Highlights of the Staak report:  • The university does not yet have a financial sustainability plan to help it reduce overreliance on the financial aid scheme and the government. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.