Many South Africans are looking at adopting healthier lifestyles. This may include reviewing their mental health, an exercise regime or eating plans. Research from the South African Journal of Clinical Nutrition indicates that there has been an increasing number of deaths resulting from non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure or lifestyle-related diseases, which may be prevented by interventions such as a healthy diet. Trying a plant-based diet, which has numerous health benefits, may be worth looking into. Don’t be afraid to make a change As a nation of meat-eaters, the term plant-based might sound a little scary, but according to Joburg-based dietician, Aziwe Booi, all this means is a diet rich in vegetables, whole grains, legumes, nuts, seeds and fruits that do not include meat products. Starting to incorporate plant-based foods into your diet may raise questions about protein. If your protein, which keeps you fuller for longer, isn’t coming from chicken or beef, then how do you get your daily intake from plants? What is plant-based? “Certain plants such as legumes, whole grains and nuts contain plant-based proteins, which are good for preventing non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure, for example,” Booi explains. Some of the other health benefits of a plant-based diet include gaining energy, building muscle (when exercising), reduction of fat intake, which is good for heart and organ health, and aiding in weight management. Adding plant-based proteins into your eating plan can start with something as simple as breakfast. Can your family afford it? For families trying to include more plant-based foods in their daily eating habits, the question of cost is important. Imported products and fancy packaging may leave shoppers in a tizz, but it’s about going back to basics. First, when moving to plant-based eating, educating yourself on this type of lifestyle change is important. Read as much as you can, speak to a dietician and ask questions. Doing research can help you make informed decisions about the type of foods you should be eating. Understanding labels is also important as it will help you to make informed purchases. “Take your time to understand what makes up a plant-based diet. Simple peanut butter and jelly sandwich are also considered a plant-based meal. Things like hummus, pesto (without cheese) are all plant-based, you just need to be intentional about what you are eating. Another way to incorporate plant-based [foods] is to go for meatless Mondays, for example.” Second, meal planning has proven to be one of the most effective ways to stick to eating plans and save money. Things like lentils and chickpeas can be purchased for as little as R20. Third, look for substitutes and replacements and start slowly. “Take meals you already enjoy and substitute meat for plant-based items. A good substitute, for example, is lentils for mince in your spaghetti bolognaise as a way to start.” Tips for going plant-based: Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.