The Marula Festival is expected to inject more than R50-million into the Limpopo economy with the small town of Phalaborwa recording full occupancy for the duration of the festivities and the overflow benefiting the surrounding towns of Tzaneen and Hoedspruit. This was confirmed by Thabo Mokone, Limpopo MEC for economic development, environment, and tourism. The festivities will run from April 6 to 9. During the recent Marula Festival media launch held at Sefapano Lodge, Mokone said the festival had not been able to boost the province’s economy over the past two years because of the Covid-19 pandemic.  “The brand and the people of Limpopo suffered a lot in the past two years of the pandemic, but now that the pandemic has stabilised we are ready to relaunch and take the brand back to where it was in 2020. “We are grateful as a government that these festivities have grown to become a sought-after event in the country,  despite disruptions caused by the outbreak .” About 16 years ago what is dubbed “Discover the Greatness in Marula” was created when the province’s department of economic development, environment, and tourism, developed Limpopo Mukumbi Industries as a viable business industry, taking advantage of the vast concentration of marula trees in the subtropical parts of the province. “It should also be emphasised that the festivities are more about the empowerment of various sectors of our population, especially women, youth, and people with disabilities through beneficiation programmes of marula,  including the production of  various byproducts from this amazing tree and its fruits.” Mokone said the decision to make Phalaborwa the permanent home of the Limpopo Marula Festival had proved to be the correct one,  given the town’s tourism profile and proximity to other tourist destinations, including the Kruger National Park. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.