Today is World Obesity Day. Statistics published by Discovery Vitality show that globally 2.1-billion people are overweight or obese and nearly 70% of South African women and 31% of South African men are overweight or obese. Even children at 13%, twice the global average, are said to be suffering from obesity. Being obese has now become linked to silent killer lifestyle diseases. Others are type 2 diabetes and heart disease. This year, the theme for World Obesity Day is “Everybody needs to act to make healthier choices easier”. Actress Sophie Ndaba has partnered with Thick Lifestyle, a social movement platform, to tackle the challenge of obesity, collaboratively and empathetically. Ndaba, who lives with diabetes, said the movement is made up of 20 plus-size women from Alexandra, Johannesburg. Martha Morudu, the managing director of Thick Lifestyle, said they want to build a community of healthy, confident, independent, and self-reliant women. “The aim of Thick Lifestyle is to help build and celebrate a community of fuller-figured women but also making sure they take care of their bodies and stay healthy,” she said. This year, the movement will host a Thick Boot Camp in Bryanston, where they will address the causes of obesity and fighting the stigma that labels obese people as failures and people who lack self-control and willpower. “This stigma is unfair, harmful and is associated with significant physiological and psychological consequences, including increased depression and anxiety, disordered eating, and decreased self-esteem.” Thick Lifestyle is also working with actor and singer Nkanyiso Bhengu, who started a #walkitoffwithnkanyiso challenge to fight obesity.  The World Obesity Federation reminds us that the “roots of obesity run deep” and sustainable solutions to this escalating global issue are far more complex than individual accountability. From biology and genetics to healthcare access, life events and mental health; from food systems to food marketing, there can be a range of intertwined factors that can lead to obesity. Lifestyle and behavioural changes are part of this transition. According to the Department of Health, the prevention and management of obesity should not only be the responsibility of individuals and healthcare workers but also requires the transformation of our food systems to provide healthy food choices that are affordable, available and accessible for all South Africans.  For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.