For Brandon Petersen, the thought of Kaizer Chiefs supporters in his football career always meant jangling nerves and anxiety, Amakhosi reported on their official website. The 27-year-old goalkeeper remembers the Amakhosi faithful very well as an opposition player during his six seasons at Ajax Cape Town and his season at Bidvest Wits. “For me when playing against Kaizer Chiefs you were always excited and nervous about the crowd, because you know the crowd will come out in their numbers and that the atmosphere is amazing,” Petersen told Chiefs’ media department ahead of the long-awaited return of fans to the stadium this weekend. Amakhosi host SuperSport United at the FNB Stadium on Saturday. Now that “Beeza” is wearing Amakhosi colours, those nerves are still there, but they’re also accompanied by excitement and the comfort of knowing the vociferous and passionate Chiefs crowd will be on his side this time round. Petersen has bided his time and dealt with injuries in his Chiefs career since joining the club in 2021, but he has shown his value and importance to the club with some solid performances recently, and will be fancying his chances of starting against Matsatsantsa a Pitori. “Now that the stadiums are opening up, I’m really excited to have the supporters back and to have that atmosphere again, and I’m really looking forward to the game. Mentally, knowing the fans are coming back, obviously is going to be different and much better. “We know the supporters are going to be there backing us and rooting for us. We know the supporters drive us and are a very important part of the Kaizer Chiefs brand and the Kaizer Chiefs family, and we are very excited to have them back.” Having fans back means that communication with his defenders and teammates will be a bit more challenging though, and that “we won’t even hear ourselves think”, but Petersen believes the fans can only be a positive, and that the team has to adapt its mental focus and approach accordingly. Petersen said the team has been hard at training to ensure they give their best on Saturday, and is confident Amakhosi can do a league double over their opponents, having beaten them away in the first round. “Playing SuperSport is never an easy game. They will come out firing. Everyone who plays Chiefs wants to beat us, so we know it’s going to be a good game, a physical game. But we’ve been preparing well. We’re one up on them, hopefully we can make it two,” said Petersen. – kaizerchiefsfc.com  Weekend football fixtures DStv Premiership Saturday: AmaZulu v Maritzburg United (Moses Mabhida, 3pm); Sekhukhune United v TS Galaxy (Makhulong, 3pm); Cape Town City v Royal AM (Cape Town, 5pm); Kaizer Chiefs v SuperSport United (FNB, 7.30pm). Sunday: Chippa United v Stellenbosch (Sisa Dukashe, 5pm); Marumo Gallants v Swallows (Peter Mokaba, 3pm). CAF Champions League quarterfinals Saturday: Petro de Luanda of Angola v Mamelodi Sundowns (11 November Stadium, 6pm). CAF Confederation Cup quarterfinals Sunday: Simba SC of Tanzania v Orlando Pirates (Benjamin Mkapa National Stadium, 6pm). English Premier League fixtures Saturday: Tottenham v Brighton (Hotspur, 1.30pm); Manchester United v Norwich (Old Trafford, 4pm); Southampton v Arsenal (St Mary’s, 4pm); Watford v Brentford (Vicarage Road, 4pm). Sunday: Newcastle v Leicester (St James, 3.15pm); West Ham v Burnley (London, 3.15pm). Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.