Limpopo ANC provincial chairperson and premier Stan Mathabatha’s faction will hold what has been called a “delegates assembly” at Kalahari Waterfront in Vhembe today as a show of force before the party’s provincial conference billed for The Ranch Hotel in Polokwane from June 3. Mathabatha, who is seeking a third term as head of the ANC in the province, will go toe to toe with transport MEC and provincial executive committee (PEC) member Dickson Masemola, who enjoys the overwhelming support of the party’s biggest region, Norman Mashabane, which was previously known as Mopani. A PEC member, who did not want to be named because he is not allowed to speak to the media, said the assembly will be used as a show of force and strategic platform to list the number of delegates who have been lobbied to elect Mathabatha and his allies. Those who are on Mathabatha’s slate are Florence Radzilani, who is vying to become deputy chairperson, VBS corruption–accused Danny Msiza as secretary, Baiskop Makamu as deputy secretary and Nakedi Sibanda- Kekana as treasurer. “We want to show the other faction that this is going to be a walk in the park for Stan. There won’t be any contest,” said the official. Another PEC member said of the 350 verified branches, they have 305 while the Masemola faction has 45 only. “When we compute the number of delegates so far, we have 470 and they have 145, thanks to the big support they have from Mopani.” After today’s assembly similar meetings are planned for the Mopani, Peter Mokaba, Sekhukhune and Waterberg regions. The Ma-thabatha faction, said the member, will also hold an “OR Tambo memorial lecturer” at Ngoako Ramatlhodi Sports Arena in Seshego on April 21. Masemola’s campaigner and sweeper Peter Ngobeni, has accused their rivals of being copycats who lack creativity. He said they have been holding “cadres forums” in all the regions and sub-regions where they campaigned and paraded their preferred top five officials and Mathabatha’s faction was imitating them. He said they have confidence that Masemola will pip Mathabatha at the post.  To read more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter@sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.  