Not only is the amapiano hot property showing flames behind the decks, DBN Gogo is making an expensive fashion statement! The Khuza Gogo hit-maker clearly understands the assignment when it comes to extenuating her figure and highlighting her assets dressed in the high-end cloths she collects. DBN Gogo, whose real name is Mandisa Radebe, wears Rich Mnisi, Maxhosa, Alexander McQueen, Prada, and the North Face Gucci collection, among a long list of brands. But her real love is her collection of bags. “The items I love the most are my bags, all my bags. They are very unique in their own way. I think I have an obsession with Alma BBs. I just love the shape, it’s very classic,” she said. The musician said high-end clothing is usually overrated and although she still grabs them from the store, she is more interested in accessories, bags, and shoes when it comes to expensive items because they last her longer. “To me, the price tag does definitely matter, it must all make sense if it’s something I’d be willing to wear again. If not then it won’t really be of use to me, unless I have to use it later, maybe for a photoshoot or other things. But if I really like something I will get it no matter the price,” she said. “The most expensive item in my closet is the Gucci x North Face goose down puffer jacket, I won’t mention the price. It’s not even actually that crazy, but it was the most expensive thing I have ever bought in terms of clothing.” A quick online search reveals that the puffer jacket costs $3 400, at least close to R50 000 in the current market. She gave credit to Bangy Rabothata, the founder of local clothing label Dead, who would go shopping with her every week to upgrade her wardrobe and to see the new looks to try out. “My fashion sense is very much inspired by trying to show shape, working with the body shape and showing it in the most flattering possible way, which I have found, for me, to be comfortable over everything and also having quite a lot of cultural influences. “I’m big on local brands and showing my culture and having something that makes me very uniquely ‘me’, which is wearing IsiZulu,” she said. She said no brand has yet approached her for modelling opportunities but she would be interested to join a fashion space where different shapes and bodies are represented. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.