Hours before the Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma could meet with officials and the political executive of the troubled Mangaung Metro Municipality, on Tuesday, drama unfolded. Acting City manager Mzingisi Nkungwana found himself squaring up with the city’s chief of Metro Police, Israel Kgamanyane in what looked like wrestling match, all captured on camera. Nkungwana has since been dismissed according to the City’s Mayor, Mxolisi Siyonzana. “I didn’t order for Mzingisi to be forcefully removed from the office. His contract has ended and he knows that,” said Siyonzana.    In the recorded video, Kgamanyane is seen pushing Nkungwana as he forces him to leave the municipal offices. Kgamanyane is heard asking security guards that he had brought with to help him to remove Nkungwana. Sunday World understands that the scuffle between the two was caused by the order allegedly given by Siyonzana to have Nkungwana yanked out of the building that houses the Supreme Court of Appeal. “Israel used to work with Mzingisi but the problem started when the Mayor Mxolisi Siyonzana’s attempt to have Mzingisi removed as an acting City Manager failed in his court bid. Mxolisi had gone to court to launch an urgent application to have Mzingisi removed as an acting City manager but the court threw the matter out. Mxolisi then sent Israel to forcefully remove Mzingisi from the office. Israel came with the entourage of the security personell but they also watched him as he tries to wrestle with Mzingisi,” said our insider. Nkungwana has since opened a case of assault against Kgamanyane at Parkweg police station. Nkungwana said: “I am not going to be bullied by Israel and Mayor Siyonzana. I came here to do my job and I won’t let anyone to interfere with me. Israel takes instructions from me, not from the Mayor. The Mayor approached the court to get me removed from my position and rescind the council decision to have appointed me, but he failed. He then sent Israel to come remove me from the office. I was never appointed by the Mayor, but by the council. The municipality must act decisively against Israel and the mayor. The reason why I am being dealt with is that I am cleaning up the mess that is at Mangaung,” he said angrily. Nkungwana also told Kgamanyane that he was aware of his ambitions of trying to become a City manager, hence he was a “lapdog of Siyonzana” to have him removed at all costs from his office and position. Kgamanyane and Mangaung’s spokesperson, Qondile Khedama, failed to respond to questions sent to them. This story has been updated Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.