Trying to make ends meet with your sky-high living expenses, increasing debt situations, excessive spending opportunities and those instant gratification
enticements are just a few problems that can prevent you from achieving financial freedom. You can reclaim and reach financial freedom once you have paid off your debt, established an emergency fund for yourself or your household and have the income to attain your life goals while also meeting your living costs. Here are five everyday obstacles that can withhold you from achieving financial freedom, as well as suggestions on how to overcome them: Increase your income by justifying a raise. Or, take on a new job that pays more (finding a better job opportunity can take time and endurance, but it is possible). And, why not do what you are good at and start a side hustle? Do you have access to a computer, and are you a respectable writer or editor? Why not try your hand at freelancing? Do you enjoy cooking and have a stove available? Establish and maintain clear money goals. Grab a piece of paper and a pen, or compile a categorised list (with a final deadline) and save it on your mobile/computer/laptop. Review your list regularly, and remember to add your “goal achievement dates” to your calendar. Make use of the resources available to you and expand your knowledge. You’ll be surprised how many educational channels there are. Listen to trusted experts via podcasts, watch informative videos, read blogs and books, or consult with a reputable expert to help you make sound financial decisions. Financial freedom is not a walk in the park, but it is doable by adding intentional behavioural tweaks throughout your daily routine. You can stick to your budget, turn away from impulsive purchases, avoid taking on additional debt and instead focus on your “needs” rather than your “wants”.  Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.