Manchester City booked their passage through to the Champions League semi-finals thanks to a hard fought goalless draw at Atletico Madrid in our quarter-final second leg, reports mancity.com In what was a compelling, fiercely fought encounter at a hostile Wanda Metropolitano Stadium, Ilkay Gundogan hit the post in what was a fine first half from Pep Guardiola’s side. However, City had to dig deep after the break in the fact of a fiery Atletico onslaught as the hosts stepped up the pressure. City though held firm and showed our composure, while Atletico were reduced to 10-men late on when Felipe was shown a second yellow card. Ederson also produced two stunning saves deep into injury time as we deservedly progressed through to a last four meeting with Real Madrid 1-0 on aggregate thanks to last week’s first leg triumph at the Etihad. In front of a packed and boisterous atmosphere at the Wanda Metropolitano Stadium, the technical quality of the football more than lived up to the stellar occasion with the game played at a ferocious pace. It was also a physical encounter with Felipe fortunate to escape an early booking after the Atletico defender clattered into the back of Phil Foden. It caused an injury that saw the England forward require lengthy treatment and forced to don a head bandage. With City driving forward at every opportunity, John Stones was unfortunate to see a 10th minute header from Kevin De Bruyne’s corner flash just over the bar. Felipe did soon go into the book after another late challenge on De Bruyne with City dominating territory and possession. All that was missing was a goal and it so nearly arrived on the half hour after a remarkable passage of play. A stunning curved pass from Mahrez opened up a yard of space for Kyle Walker advancing on the right edge of the Atletico box. The England defender picked out Foden at the far post, he instinctively found Gundogan in the centre of the box and the skipper’s low left foot drive cannoned back off the foot of the post. Gundogan’s follow-up header hit Felipe before the hosts frantically cleared the danger. Ederson was called into action to gather a low deflected Kondogbia drive but City were the dominant side with only the end product absent in a controlled first 45 minutes. The hosts sought to adopt a more attacking mindset as the second half got underway, and City were grateful to see a Joao Felix header miss the target after the Madrid man gained half a yard on Walker. Antoine Griezmann then let fly with an instinctive volley which just dipped the wrong side of the post It was a test of composure with Atletico substitute de Paul almost making an instant impact as his 70th minute effort curled dangerously close. There was also the worrying sight of Walker having to replace by Nathan Ake after the full-back was hurt in a challenge with Lodi. With the tension at fever pitch then Stones produced a magnificent 86th minute clock to deny Cunha after his shot looked goal bound from Correa’s assist. City substitute Ake needed all his wits around him as he calmly cleared in the centre of the box with Luis Suarez waiting to pounce. The game then boiled over with nine minutes of injury time played, with Felipe shown a second yellow card after a poor follow through on Foden before Stefan Savic received a yellow for following through as he nursed an injury. City though stayed cool, calm and composed with Oblak producing a fine injury time save to deny Gundogan. Ederson then showed his bravery to produce superb saves from Llorente’s free-kick and Correa’s late drive as we earned the ultimate reward of a place in the Champions League semi-finals. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.