The Department of Health says it will cost over R185 million to repair health infrastructures that were damaged by the floods in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) last week. Department of Health spokesperson Doctor Tshwale said: “According to the preliminary  costs  of  the  damages,  it  is  estimated  at  over R185 000 000.00 to repair the health infrastructure, which includes 23 Hospitals, 34 clinics, three Community Health Centres and five office buildings.” Health Minister Joe Phaahla, Deputy Minister Sibongiseni Dhlomo, and KZN MEC for Health Nomagugu Simelane had visited various flood-stricken health facilities around the eThekwini District on Tuesday. Tshwale said: “There has been huge damage on infrastructure which negatively impacts general health service delivery in six affected districts of eThekwini, Ugu, Ilembe, uMgungudlovu, King Cetshwayo, and uMkhanyakude. “Departmental experts, who include the Engineers, Architects, Quantity Surveyors, and Construction Managers have classified the damage to health infrastructure as moderate compared to the damages experienced in October 2017 in eThekwini. Most damages manifest in the form of weakened roof coverings, failed waterproofing membranes causing water ingress, embankments, and retaining wall failures.” Tshwale also confirmed that Newtown Community Health Centre, Wentworth Regional Hospital, GJ Crooks Hospital, and Justice Gizenga Mpanza Regioan Hospital will require capital expenditure to restore roof coverings and embankment re-stabilisation. Pathology Forensic Teams have completed 377 post-mortem examinations of the 455 bodies that have been recovered thus far. Tshwale said 50 more bodies will be examined on Wednesday. “The Department calls on families and communities to collect the remains for burial, and in case of indigent families they may contact the Provincial Government for assistance,” he said. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.