Former president Jacob Zuma failed to appear before judge Piet Koen because “he is not well”, the Pietermaritzburg High Court heard on Monday at the start of his arms deal trial. This despite a court order instructing that the former statesman be present for the proceedings. During an urgent media briefing early on Monday, Jacob Zuma Foundation spokesperson Mzwanele Manyi shared that the former statesman was “not in a condition to be here as we speak”, because of an undisclosed medical condition. Manyi said Zuma was not well since Sunday evening, noting that his medical team had instructed that he was not in a condition to be present in court for the proceedings. On Sunday, the foundation said Zuma’s lawyers would apply for a postponement because the “conditions for a fair trial are non-existent”. Said the foundation: “H.E president Zuma has decided that private prosecution is the only way to deal with the removal of the NPA’s [National Prosecuting Authority] advocate [Billy] Downer and has instructed his legal team to set the wheels in motion. “Also, the reconsideration application has been filed with the president of the SCA [Supreme Court of Appeal].” Zuma is calling for the private prosecution of Downer, contending that he leaked crucial information about his health to the media. The NPA said the latest developments were part of delaying tactics by Zuma and his legal team, noting that it was ready to proceed with the trial. “On 11 April 2022, we will oppose any application for a postponement because any further delay is not in the best interests of any party,” said the NPA. Alongside French arms dealer Thales, Zuma faces multiple charges of fraud, racketeering and money-laundering linked to the multibillion-rand arms deal struck back in the 1990s. This is a developing story… Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter@sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.