The British Council’s Creative Economy E-Learning Programme helps South Africans harness their diversity by providing them with the knowledge to build their own creative business. This article celebrates the diversity of three business owners that have chosen to take the course. Butholezwe Nyoni What is your business about? Ubuntu Arts and Culture Emotional Healing Initiative SA deals with depression, trauma, stress, anxiety and phobias through therapeutic arts, occupational therapy, life coaching and career development. Why did you decide to sign up to this course? I wanted to learn more about the sociology that involves African cultures and their daily life and business conduct to be fully equipped with knowledge and various ideologies of handling any given situation. What was the most useful thing about the course so far? And why? Models of conducting social cohesion, culture and business What would you say to a fellow entrepreneur thinking about taking the course? To be open to the understanding and vision of economic development and growth through social entrepreneurship systems.  Mpho Bernet What is your business about? My performing arts company creates our own productions of all genres. We are planning on creating a digital hub where we will be producing animation stories and animated films for kids. Why did you decide to sign up to this course? The course interested me and I thought it could help grow my business. What was the most useful thing about the course so far? And why? Learning about the target market, because if you have a business you have to know where you are selling to. What would you say to a fellow entrepreneur thinking about taking the course? I will encourage them to take this because this course is an eye opener.  Santos Dos Santos What’s your business about? Kgaliland Originals is a South African digital screenplay for children which is being made into books and activity material that children can engage/learn and interact with. Why did you decide to start your own business? To have financial freedom and bring value to the current market place. Why did you decide to sign up to this course? I wanted to help upskill with myself with tools and resources that can help propel my business to different heights. What was the most useful thing about the course so far? And why? Raising capital for my business, because it factors a lot of information and expertise that I would not have known if I had not participated in the course. What would you say to a fellow entrepreneur thinking about taking the course? Take your time, the course goes in depth with a lot of case studies and information that can help assist you and your business where need be. To gain valuable insight and learning from the British Council with useful advice on how to manage your finances, market your product, and communicate with your customers visit the British Council’s Creative Economy E-Learning Platform. 