Johannesburg – Kaizer Chiefs will look to avenge themselves against TS Galaxy as the two teams have been drawn against each other in the Nedbank Cup’s last 32 fixtures. The two teams share a history in the cup competition from three years ago, when TS Galaxy stunned the Amakhosi in the Nedbank Cup final with a late strike by now Orlando Pirates player Zakhele Lepasa – which saw the Glamour Boys’ chances of clinching the title go in vain. At that time, TS Galaxy under the stellar leadership of Dan Malesela, was playing in the National First Division and became the first team from the second division to win the Nedbank Cup. It became a misery for the Gold and Black outfit that boasts a rich history, to lose a crucial game to the second division team. However, this was not new for the Soweto giants in the tournament, as they were previously trolled by then little-known Baroka FC, by knocking out the Glamour Boys in the competition in 2011. Defending champions Marumo Gallants, will host the forgotten Santos. Last season’s finalists Chippa United will take on the GladAfrica Championship side, University of Pretoria. Full fixtures: Kaizer Chiefs v TS Galaxy Orlando Pirates v AmaZulu NC Professionals v Mathaithai FC Royal AM v Cape Town City Venda Football Academy v African All Stars Maritzburg United v SuperSport United University of Pretoria v Chippa United Platinum City Rovers v Sekhukhune United Stellenbosch FC v Baroka FC Swallows FC v TS Sporting Tshakhuma FC v Golden Arrows Sinenkani FC v Free State Stars Richards Bay v Mamelodi Sundowns Marumo Gallants v Santos Uthongathi FC v Summerfield Dynamos FC Black Eagles FC v Sivutsa FC The prize money for the winner of the tournament is R7 million, and this means Nedbank Cup remains the second big domestic cup competition in South Africa after the MTN8, which hands over R8 million. For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.