Johannesburg- Three new cast members are set to join The Real Housewives of Durban for season two. MaKhumalo, Ayanda, and Nonku all trended on Twitter on Monday as social media sleuths started piecing together who was coming back to The Real Housewives of Durban and who wasn’t. Season 2 of the Showmax Original The Real Housewives of Durban launches on 28 January 2022, with new episodes following every Friday. Showmax has just released a first look at the three new wives featured this season, who will be bringing all the class, glamour, sass, and drama we’ve come to expect from the franchise. Londie London’s decision to join The Real Housewives of Durban was sparked by her return to Durban and her becoming a wife to businessman Hlubi Nkosi and mom to a ten-month-old baby boy, Uminathi. “Since I’ve become a wife, and a mother, I thought it would be a great idea for the public to see how I’m rebranding myself,” says the musician, actress, and jewellery designer.” “People know me as this sexy singer and I feel like they don’t really know my personality and what I’m about outside of the entertainment industry,” stated Londie.  Being married to popular polygamist Musa Mseleku, Thobile MaKhumalo Mseleku is no stranger to the public eye. In addition to her appearance on Uthando Nes’thembu, she’s a radio personality on Vuma FM and an in-demand motivational speaker, among other things. Thobile’s decision to join The Real Housewives of Durban is inspired by her desire to bring out her individuality more. “Many people know me from Uthando Nes’thembu, and they haven’t had the opportunity to know and understand Thobile as an individual.” “Wherever I go, I’m always associated with the family I’m married into, which is not a bad thing and is not something I have a problem with. However, I do have a life outside of the whole family.” “I need people that I can mingle with, people who inspire me and make sense to me,” she says. “I’ve already seen these women do things for themselves, which is inspiring. They are self-driven like I am,”said Thobile.  Jojo Robinson is a tattoo fanatic and artist, who is married to Durban businessman and former South African kickboxing champion Calven Robinson. They have a six-year-old son, Rocco. “I decided to join this season because I wanted to give a new perspective on the tattooed community. Often people have assumptions about people with tattoos and I wanted to flip that around and show everyone that you should never judge a book by its cover. I also always wanted to do something in TV and thought this would be a good way to kick-start that.” “I love doing things that are out of my comfort zone, and I think this was the perfect space for self-growth and to create new friendships. It’s time to make the circle bigger, baby. And bring a little sugar and spice to an already amazing group of women,” she said.  Also read: Why the housewives are returning for season 2 of RHOD Ayanda Ncwane quits Real Housewives of Durban Look: Fans all geared up for new season of RHOD For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here