Johannesburg – One of South Africa’s biggest supermarket chains, Pick n Pay has said it has launched its new Vehicle Licence Disc Renewal Service nationally. Customers will now be able to renew their licence discs at over 500 Pick n Pay stores, across South Africa, at an amended service fee of R250. Customers can visit any Pick n Pay supermarket or hypermarket to renew their vehicle licence disc. The retailer said it is also hoping to roll out the service to all Pick n Pay Liquor and Clothing stores soon too. “Renewing your car licence disc is now as easy as adding it to your grocery shopping list. Our network of stores across South Africa means that anyone is able to use this convenient service,” said John Bradshaw, Head of Omnichannel at Pick n Pay This new hassle-free way of renewing your vehicle licence disc was officially piloted in 19 Pick n Pay stores for a week before the retailer opened up the service to all stores as requests from customers increased to use the service across South Africa. “It’s been an exciting week launching this in all stores and reviewing the service based on customer feedback so far. We are also happy to officially launch the new service with a service fee of R250.” This fee excludes the courier fee of R99,99 for delivery to the customer’s doorstep. The retailer says that this new service – in partnership with One Loyalty and Claim Expert – will make it more convenient for customers to renew their licence disc and will help with congestion at licence renewal offices and the Post Office. Registration is quick and easy: The service also provides the ability for customers to resolve any blockages that may prevent them from renewing their vehicle licence disc. An additional benefit is that once registered, customers will receive a renewal notification to help customers avoid a penalty fee. The Pick n Pay Vehicle Licence Disc Renewal Service joins the host of accessible services the retailer offers its customers to make everyday errands and life admin easier and quicker. Other innovative services include its strategic partnership with TymeBank and its Deposit @ Till facility, both of which let customers skip queues and do their banking while doing their grocery shopping. “Thanks to our extensive national footprint, customers can now renew their vehicle licence disc almost anywhere in South Africa with complete ease, while also paying their bills, buying electricity or airtime,” says Bradshaw. How it works: The service is available to anyone needing to renew their licence disc for their privately owned vehicles, and there is no limit to the number of discs a customer can renew The costs include the actual vehicle renewal fee, a service fee of R250 and a courier fee of R99,99. For more business news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.