Johannesburg – The Premier Soccer League (PSL) headman Dr Irvin Khoza is expected to unpack an update on several matters that have resulted in a controversy within the South African football fraternity. The PSL faces a major setback, where it has to resolve ‘unresolved’ numerous high profile cases, notably the Kaizer Chiefs matter when they snubbed their two matches due to the Covid-19 spike and the top-flight’s seniors who resigned with immediate effect. The PSL’s chairman will host a press conference on Wednesday, 05 January, at 11:00. This briefing follows the previous media press, where Iron Duke as he’s popularly known, ditched away to unpack these aligned issues, instead turned the press to introduce the newly launched DStv Compact Cup. According to close sources, Khoza reportedly went for the launch of the tournament only, as the top-flight’s high decision-making body was halted by the resignations of the PSL’s prosecutor Nande Becker and lawyer Michael Murphy. Last year, Kaizer Chiefs failed to honour their two league fixtures due to the Covid-19 crisis, which led to their 36 personnel testing positive for the virus. Tackling this matter, Iron Duke announced that this matter is not an easy one. “It’s a matter that was dealt with by the football department and was escalated to the exco. “It requires a lot of attention to detail to make sure that the adjudication on this matter must be seen to have been given a thorough process and evaluation because it talks about issues that are very interesting because you know we are a rules-based organisation,” addressed Khoza last December. The Chiefs saga continues to lead the contentious proceedings aligned with the PSL at the moment as they are set to lodge an appeal of the decision to not grant a postponement of their matches. Various clubs and football lovers are looking forward to the PSL’s verdict that will shed light on the ongoing proceedings. For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here