Johannesburg – The release of the findings on the state’s longest-running inquiry has caused a stir for some political heavyweights in South Africa. Former Government Communications Information System (GCIS) CEO and Jacob Zuma Foundation spokesperson, Mzwanele Manyi, was labelled as an ‘enabler’ of state capture during his tenure as GCIS CEO when he splashed millions of rands worth of advertising to the Gupta Owned newspaper, The New Age (TNA). Manyi has denied these allegations and referred to the findings as ‘absolute rubbish’ after the report was handed over on Tuesday. He explained that he was not involved when various heads of communication of various departments who all reported to the GCIS made final decisions about their advertising spend of their department. “GCIS only negotiated for bulk discounts… we do not decide where money should be spent, so to say that I enabled, is rubbish, it is absolute rubbish,” Manyi explained thereby defending himself. Part one of the inquiry’s report released on Tuesday night also named the Jacob Zuma Foundation in potential money-laundering activities with money being moved between it and then SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni’s business associates and son, Thalente. “The Commission has not put even an ounce of evidence to corroborate its outlandish statements about me. My real crime is that I am the spokesperson of the most hated man, H.E President Zuma,” Manyi said in a voice note sent over Whatsapp that Sunday World is in possession of.      Also read: State capture reveals ineptitude in contracts concluded between TNA and Transnet Funds diverted from SOEs to benefit ANC state capture report reveals Read part one of the state capture report here Ramaphosa receives part one of the State Capture report To read more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.