Johannesburg – The ever-contested South African top-flight, Premier Soccer League (PSL) is one of the wealthiest leagues on the continent, and also rated amongst the top richest with a close value of over R2-billion. The PSL doesn’t only have a beautiful story by being amongst the top three on the continent, but it also has a good reputation with having mass viewership, which attracts major sponsorship deals. Every team in the PSL is fully endorsed by various companies, from kit designing to cars. Both the Soweto giants, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates are two prominent soccer clubs in the PSL to have multiple sponsorship deals which contribute immensely in the upliftment of these two rivals. When it comes to common industries that try to strike sponsorship deals, they have the will of giving back to the clubs as well as players which are loved by many. Various motor companies and clothing brands have endorsed several clubs in the South African football, from developing colleagues to the professional league. Most in particular, these endorsements are also rewarded to soccer players, who are loved by their fans. Here we look at the PSL’s top five players with massive endorsements: 1. Themba Zwane – Mamelodi Sundowns (Lexus South Africa) Mamelodi Sundowns skillful midfielder Themba ‘Mshishi’ Zwane is one of the stylish players at Chloorkop, and he’s not the only charismatic star, but a hard-working player in the field of play. Mshishi is the key and senior player at Chloorkop, and referred as the dribbling wizard for his massive skills when he is in control of the ball. The 32-year-old has been recognised by  Lexus South Africa for his outrageous performance  2. Thembinkosi Lorch – Orlando Pirates (Puma South Africa) The Orlando Pirates star Thembinkosi ‘Nyoso’ Lorch is not only a famously known talented soccer star, but Mzansi’s stylish soccer footballer when it comes to fashion. He’s love for fashion, has seen Nyoso being endorsed by a Puma clothing brand, which is a German multinational corporation that designs and manufactures athletic and casual footwear, apparel and accessories.  3. Thulani Hlatswayo – Orlando Pirates (Volkswagen) Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates defender Thulani ‘Tyson’ Hlatswayo became the prominent figure during his days when he played for the now defunct, Bidvest Wits, where he took it with pride to rock a sponsorship deal that was offered to him by Volkswagen. Even after switching to the Sea Robbers, the German motor vehicle manufacturer has been alongside Tyson as their devoted sponsor.  4. Khama Billiat – Kaizer Chiefs (Adidas) The Zimbabwean international and Kaizer Chiefs star Khama Billiat’s name is one of the finest and most recognised names in the South African football fraternity, and he has captured an interest from the remarkable clothing brand Adidas. Although Kaizer Chiefs is sponsored by Nike clothing brand, Billiat is known a distinctive player who will have Adidas soccer boots apart from any other player in the Glamour Boys.  5. Deon Hotto – Orlando Pirates (Adidas South Africa) The Namibian soccer star, Deon Hotto who’s an influential key player for Orlando Pirates player and Namibia national team, has groomed his career through his unmatched dexterities. The Buccaneer forward signed a major deal with Adidas, to be amongst one of their brand ambassador.  For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.