Johannesburg- A sombre atmosphere enveloped the Soweto Theatre in Jabulani yesterday where legendary actor Patrick Shai’s funeral services was held with solemn homily and moving reflections of his dream to fight gender-based violence (GBV) and femicide. Shai committed suicide by hanging himself with a rope from the roof of his garage at his Dobsonville home on Saturday last week. When Shai’s casket, which was ferried in a transparent glass trailer, arrived at the Soweto Theatre, mourners who were gathered outside snapped into stoic silence and bowed their heads towards the trailer, which was towed by a black SUV. When the programme officially started, many  speakers, from all walks of life, took to the podium and delivered poignant eulogies in honour of the fallen hero. Actress Nakedi Ribane said she met Shai between 1984 and 1985 when she was shooting Bophelo Ke Semphego in which she played Senthaolele. She said she had benefitted significantly from his sea of knowledge. Family friend Mamanese Mathule said she was not ashamed of how Shai departed. “How else was he going to be the voice of suicide beyond the grave if he had not committed suicide?” she asked. Actor Israel Matseke-   Zulu, who was making his first public appearance after being discharged from hospital where his leg was amputated because of gangrene, also took to the podium and just belted a song. Sechaba, Shai’s son, said his father had nothing to offer anymore. “He had run his race,” he said. Tshepiso, his daughter, who choked in tears before paying her last respect, enthralled  mourners with jokes about the actor’s odd sartorial taste and  amazing dancing prowess. “He would wear a suit and All Star takkies. Sometimes he would wear a blazer and a short pants. I can’t speak of him in past sentence because I know that he lives in me. I will always love you, majaivane, lepantsula la rona,” she said. Kopano, his other son, broke down on the podium before delivering moving anecdotes about him. “I hope where you are, you are at peace,” he said. Shai’s widow, Masechaba, who called him Ntwana, said she was confused whether she should say goodbye to him. Masechaba, who did not speak behind the podium but from the front pew, where she was seated, also said she was hurt by his untimely death. “We had our love moments and our own challenges. It is going to be a tough journey. But I know you are in good hands. “We loved , we cried, we fought, we agreed, and we disagreed. “One thing that I know is that we wanted the best for our kids, we did not want them to copy our bad habits. We will miss our pizza days that you would organise for us. “Good night, Ntwana, see you in the morning,” she said. Deputy Minister of Sport, Arts and Culture Nocawe Mafu said in Shai the country had lost a soldier in the fight against GBV and femicide. “After exposing himself as an ex-perpetrator of gender-based violence, he dedicated his life to fighting it,” she said. After paying their homage, mourners joined a phalanx of motorbikes and vehicles that filed out on the streets to join the procession to the cemetery, where the  body of  the revered thespian was interred. Actors Nambitha Mpumlwana, Motlatsi Mafatshe,Mpho J Molepo, Mimi Mahlasela, Aubrey Poo, Zikhona Sodlaka, Mabutho Sithole, Zolisa Xaluva, Connie Sibiya and gospel stars Teboho Moloi, Omega, Hush, Canaan Nyathi, Lebo Sekgobela and Takie Ndou were among those who attended the service. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here 