Johannesburg- The day the country had been waiting for had finally arrived when Big Brother Mzansi made a return to our screens this week. The launch took place at Rockets in Bryanston last Sunday, where almost all the Mzansi Magic stars showed up. Ncooo! January is such a powerful month, it brings everyone together through politics of the stomach. The venue was amazing, the people were nicely dressed, and the food and drinks were flowing. Many celebrities had more fun at the bar than watching the show. While some brought their sidekicks, others were flying solo. Anything is possible in Jozi, you can make a career just by following a celebrity around. An amazing performance by Kamo Mphela. Truly what the audience deserved. On that note, can people stop body-shaming her, she’s a child growing into a young woman.  Actor Lawrence Maleka did a stellar job as the host. But can he go back to The River? It’s been a while, I miss his character. The cast of The Wife also attended in their numbers, fitting nicely into Mqhele’s taxi to enjoy a drink and a snack before they all got into the kombi to Konka.  Lasizwe wore a black suit looking like a closeted gay going back home to a relative’s funeral. Babes do get a stylist before it’s too late, you can’t ruin that cute face with that cheap-looking suit.  And to my delight, Pallance Dladla finally crept out of the woods. We miss seeing you on the screen, darling. But just a warning, we can’t afford to lose
another hunk to phuza face. Somizi made a brief entrance dripping in Dolce&Gabbana. Shwa really enjoyed his outfit. There is something so sexy about actor Zamani Mbatha, if you ever need a sugar mama, Shwa is willing to cash her life savings.  Connie Ferguson’s daughter, Lesedi Matsunyane, looked amazing with her new body and silver hair. We think she needs to be in front of the camera and not behind the scenes, too cute to be hidden.  Social media expert Phil Mphela was also there to make sure that the event was trending while some of us were drinking. Can you please also tell your fans to stop relying on you for “breaking news”? You’re not that special, hun. It was epic nonetheless. With the lockdown regulations eased, one almost slept over at the bar. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here