Johannesburg – President Cyril Ramaphosa has released the Special Investigative Unit’s (SIU) report into Covid-19 related procurement by all spheres of government on Tuesday. This follows an 18-month investigation by an independent statutory body that is accountable to parliament and the President. The unit discovered billions of rands that were spent irregularly after the state entered agreements with several contractors, to aid cash-strapped government departments. According to Corruption Watch’s famous report, the state had to launch a probe into the excessive billions that were spent following Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) tenders. Out of 4 549 contracts that have been completed, 2 803 of these contracts were found to be irregular, according to Ramaphosa. He said at least 5 467 government contracts awarded to  3066 service providers with a total value of R14.3 billion were conducted, while others are still being investigated by the SIU. He lambasted irregular expenditure by all spheres of government, from local, provincial, and national. “It is unacceptable that so many contracts associated with saving lives and protecting livelihoods were irregular, unlawful, or fraudulent,” said Ramaphosa. The President said the report demonstrates the government’s intervention to root out corruption and to deal with perpetrators. He called the report an essential phase in bringing corrupt individuals to account. “The submission of the final report is an important step in our fight against corruption in the public and private sectors, and against maladministration. ”The final report details matters referred by the SIU to the National Prosecuting Authority, departments and entities in the public sector, and other parties, who will finalise the process of bringing wrongdoers to book and addressing weaknesses identified by the SIU investigation,” he said. Some of these contracts remain under investigation by the unit and a supplementary report will be handed over to the President by June this year. To read the latest Covid-19 related news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. Sunday World