Johannesburg – The country’s athletics fraternity and Athletics South Africa president James Moloi are breathing a huge sigh of relief now that they can do what they do best and participate in their favourite sport. Moloi was excited to provide an overview for 2022 and share his expectation on how the year will pan out. Athletics, just like the rest of the world, was brought to a screeching halt by the Covid-19 pandemic. For two years, SA’s major competitions such as the Comrades Marathon, the Soweto Marathon, and international events were put on the back burner. Last week, the SA 35km Race Walking Championship and Inter-Provincial Race Walking Challenge took place in Cape Town. Some of the other athletics events to look out for this year are the Indoor Championships in Belgrade, Serbia, in March. The World Athletics Race Walking Team Championships will be in Muscat, Oman, also in March. There’s also the World Athletics Championships in Oregon in the US in July. The Commonwealth Games will be taking place in Birmingham, while the World Half-Marathon (21,1km) Championships will be in China in November. “We are so happy because 2022 is going to be a very busy year. We have already sent out the calendar for the year. All our major racing events and marathons are back and we are looking forward to hosting our participants. The Two Oceans will take place in April and the Comrades in August, and then the Soweto Marathon in November,” said Moloi. “Our athletes are working hard to get back to their best. They must just prioritise the events they will take part in. We must remember  that  Team SA did not do well in the last Olympic Games in Tokyo and they may want to take advantage of the World Championships or the Commonwealth Games.” For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.