Johannesburg – Besides cars and exclusive sneakers, there is nothing that melts a man’s heart like a good watch or timepiece as some prefer to call them. And for Limpopo-born Kholofelo Masha, time is of the essence to make his Xesha watch brand. His dream is for the brand to compete among the most luxurious and expensive timepieces globally. “I believe in my brand and in myself. I am aware that I have the talent and motivation to make my brand as big as I want it to be,” said Masha. “Both Breitling and Rolex were founded by individuals with vision, who started with a simple process and then grew their business. I see myself as being on a similar path.” The 31-year-old started making watches after he was retrenched as a laboratory worker in 2017. But why such a drastic change in his career path? “I wanted to focus on an industry where I could create a unique and surprising product. Considering that watchmaking was an under-represented sector in South Africa, I naturally gravitated towards that. “The concept of time is very important to me because it is our most valuable resource and I wanted to combine my love of African storytelling with this fundamental concept. He added: “I named it Xesha because it means time, which is the very essence of our existence. My watches do not only measure time, they are also your companion throughout all the significant moments in your life.” The first timepiece he owned was a gift he described as minimal and simple to pair with any clothing. He wanted the same for his pieces – elegant but simple. “The very first watch I made was a quartz-powered watch that featured a simple geometric pattern. “The watch was in simple black and white and was sold in Demark in June of 2019. “We fabricate the watches from components and perform our own design processes with equipment like laser engravers and cutting.” His watches don’t come cheap though, ranging between R2 500 and R6 000. Masha said his prices are based on the high quality of materials, fabrication, and finishes that go into making the product. “Other local watch creators are forces within their own right. I know that my watches stand apart because of their uniqueness and quality,” he said. “Depending on the project at hand, we use brass, gold and diamonds.” Under the Xesha brand, he has the Dzu’neka piece, which means worthy of praise. This, he said, was designed to be an attention-grabber with a large casing, and an oversized crown with a golden skeleton dial. Masha said Dzu’neka was made for people who need a spectacular timepiece to match their extroverted energy. The Zimele model lives up to the concept of independence, with subtle and understated elegance while still managing to stand out as a bold and impactful timepiece. He said although he only wears his own brand, he would still one day like to own an original Petek Phillippe, Misahiro Kikuno Temporal, as well as a piece by DuFour Phillippe.  For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here