Johannesburg-South African TV presenter Katlego Maboe’s two-year legal battle is finally over. This comes after reports surfaced that he had been served with a protection order and received backlash after a video of him arguing with his partner went viral on social media. Katlego has taken to social media to share a statement about his court woes which have finally come to an end. “On 27 January 2022, TV personality, Mr.Katlego Maboe, was absolved by the Magistrates Court against allegations of alleged misconduct, made by his former partner Ms.Monique Muller, in October 2020.” “The court agreed with the submission of a Point in limine from Mr. Maboe’s legal team, ruling that there were no grounds for obtaining the protection order. Furthermore, the court has not made a finding of acts of domestic violence that were allegedly perpetrated against Ms. Muller, and as such, the matter has been dismissed.” “This is a great victory for Mr.Maboe, who has maintained his innocence throughout the two-year ordeal.” “The most important thing to me is the wellbeing of my son, and fortunately things have settled into a routine for him after being put through such a terrible and lengthy process. I am so grateful to my friends and family, and my Incredible team for their ongoing support, and to the justice system for ruling in favor of the truth.” “I may never know or understand the real motive behind all of this destruction and heartache, but right now, I just want to focus on putting the pieces of my life back together,“ said Maboe. “Upon news of the allegations in 2020, Mr.Maboe suffered devastating reputational damage, resulting in a loss of professional livelihood.” “This included the cancellation of his contract with OUTsurance and a suspension from his long-term contract with SABC 3’s Expresso Morning Show. The loss of financial income has not been recovered since the start of the court battle.” “Mr. Maboe has a final harassment interdict granted against Ms.Monique Muller’s brother, Seth Muller, who made damaging and unfounded allegations in support of Ms. Muller’s claims.” “He is also pursuing legal action against Women for Change founder, Sabrina Walter, and SA Film and Television Awards (SAFTAs) chairperson of the judges, Dr.Janet van Eeden, in this regard.” “A criminal charge of criminal defamation is pending against Sabrina Walter in the Muizenberg Magistrates Court for posting defamatory and untrue statements against Mr.Maboe, which led to his removal as a SAFTA nominee in the category of Best TV Presenter. She is expected to appear in court soon, “reads the statement. See the full statement below:  Also Read: Katlego Maboe wants R1 million from ex-girlfriend, Monique Muller For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.