Johannesburg – Dubbed as Lords of the microphone in the broadcasting industry, the outgoing duo and renowned conqueror of the airwaves, Nomthunzi ‘Mama ka ma-Asi’ Vuza and reverend Nomathamsanqa Rweqana are hanging up their boots after a long spell of being on-air. The radio veterans who gave their lives to the hearts, souls, and minds of South African radio lovers, have decided to bow out in what came as a shocking moment to many, as it came as a coincidence for the duo to retire at the same time. Best known for her unique phrase “imithwalo nee ntaba” in her vibrant and engaging show Lelika Yehova Ihlabathi, the radio legend Nomthunzi, leaves behind a spectacular legacy of uplifting masses and making a significant impact on her listeners. Speaking of her massive journey since she has joined the station in 1989 while it was still called Radio Xhosa, the 75-year-old says radio became a ‘Bowl of Cherries’ in her life. “I was sent by God to give my best to the show, it has been a great 33 years of experience having been with Umhlobo, and during my shows, I made an impact, where people will receive blessings because of my words of upliftment,” said Vusa. Mama Ka ma-Asi has made great strives during her 33 years of experience with the Eastern Cape-based station where she will reach over a million listeners in her show. During her show, she invited prominent figures such as President Cyril Ramaphosa, speaker of parliament Nosiviwe-Mapisa Nqakula, and former deputy president Phumzile Mlabo-Ngcuka. “I will invite prominent figures in my own personal capacity, as we had no producers during that time, and they will honour my invitation to host them, this is one of the formidable memories that I will forever cherish in my life,” she addressed. When asked about her next chapter post being on radio, the Queen of the airwaves as she’s described by her loyal fans, says that she still wants to leave a mark in her life as age is nothing to her, as she now eyes acting career. She says that she had to deal with the bureaucrats of the old SABC, when she took over the reins. She had to take her show to hospitals and prisons to bring hope to their lives. “That’s where my famous show ‘Hlala eThembeni’ originated from, as I restored lost souls and those who have given up in life, I will take my shows to the places where our people have lost hope in life”, she said. Hailing from Ngqushwa, deep in the valley rural areas of Eastern Cape, Nomthunzi says she started working as an educator where she spent over 21 years before she switched to radio. “I’m a teacher by profession, not only just a radio presenter, in my show I became an educator, as I will also come to my show to inspire and educate people,” she said. Her advice to the upcoming generation, Nomthunzi says one has to be realistic to themselves and to never compete with anyone in the broadcasting industry. Another long-serving radio personality at Umhlobo Wenene is reverend Nomathamsanqa Rweqana, who shed a tear when she spoke vividly on the enchanting experience, she has had with the station where she spent over 25 years in the airwaves. “It was a good time, this is where I nurtured my talent, and it was also a good time where I had time to teach people how to live a principled life and be free from drugs and other common factors,” Rweqane told Sunday World. “It gave me an opportunity to analyse myself and my listeners, and I wanted my listeners to grow abiding by God’s side,” she said. “We laid a solid foundation at Umhlobo Wenene and it’s up to the current generation to take the baton to the next level,” she said. When asked about her next move post her long spell career, she says she will now venture her journey into writing a book about the chapter of her life and to motivate the current generation. She says the battle nowadays is against substance abuse and gender-based violence, and she is now eager to write words of inspiration in a book, that will help youngsters to think positively and to invest in their future than having to focus on social factors that tempers with their lives. “Our kids are dropping out from school due to social factors; I will not only put it into a book but I will run community organisation to assist our society to move in a good generation,” said reverend Rweqane. Her passion for the ministry of religion led to additional administrative roles at the station, which included tasks such as recording devotions, prologues, sermons, and spiritual awakening. She also presented the Thursday show: Mna nendlu yam siyakuMkhonza uYehova. Rweqana is known by her listeners for her midnight knocks, which she uses as art to keep her listeners awake. Unpacking her first experience with Umhlobo Wenene, Rweqane said she had no hiccups, and she enjoyed working throughout the morning. “It was not challenging, will wake up in the morning and prepare myself, so that when I go live, my show is engaging with the listeners, those who work nightshifts, and those that prepare themselves for the day ahead,” she said. She says her show, Ndingu Yehova iGqirha Lakho, played a dispensable role during the days of Covid-19, where she will give people hope that if they abide by the word of God and are consistence with the Holy Bible, they will not lose faith. “I know there are listeners who are heavily burdened by their issues and they need a word from God to take all their burdens away, this is where I will come in space to preach the word to them,” she addressed. Sunday World engaged with Umhlobo Wenene to understand what the station has to say regarding the departure of these legends, the station said, this will leave a great legacy where the station had brilliant veterans behind the microphone that similarly their work was the same in restoring the confidence of listeners. “The station bids an emotional farewell to these radio legends and is a big loss to the SABC as a whole. “As the two elderly presenters call time on their illustrious careers and leave an audience of over 4,5 million listeners – they also leave a legacy and an opportunity for a new generation of presenters to enter the industry,” said Umhlobo Wenene. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.