Johannesburg- The Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane has condemned a failed hit on Amathole District Councillor Nanziwe Rulashe at her East London home in the early hours of Sunday morning. Rulashe made headlines last week after a video of her being dragged out of Amathole District Municipality offices went viral and caused a lot of outrage and condemnation in various sectors of society. Following the incident she told a story of a toxic relationship between herself, Amathole Director of Strategic Planning and Management portfolio, Akhona Tinta and the Municipal Mayor Nceba Ndikinda. Rulashe said she believed that the two deliberately sabotaged her on two occasions. She said on the 6th of January she had a scheduled meeting with Tinta but failed to pitch because Ndikinda wanted to see Tinta at the same time. On the day Rulashe was dragged out of the office, she said she reported Tinta to Ndikinda after she tried to take over a department meeting meant to be presided over by Rulashe and again Ndikinda didn’t see anything wrong with that. Eastern Cape police confirmed an attempted hit on Rulashe and have established a Task-Team to investigate. In a statement police said an unidentified suspect arrived at Rulashe’s home in the early hours of Sunday morning and started shooting several shots through the bedroom window. Eastern Cape police Spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana said: “She was not present in the room at the time, but only children who escaped unhurt as they were in other rooms. The circumstances surrounding the incident are not known at this stage.” Kinana said, the Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Nomthetheleli Mene has ordered the establishment of a task team and has appointed a senior officer to lead a group of investigators on this matter. During the visit at Rulashe’s home on Sunday morning Mabuyane said the attempted hit on Rulashe’s life is worrisome because there were signs of incidents where she was being followed and she opened a case with the police. “We also understand that those who humiliated her were granted bail effortlessly. We are calling on police to do their work diligently in line with the fight against gender based violence,” said Mabuyane. He said whoever attempted to kill Rulashe knew her house well because he got the targeted right but luckily she was not there. To read more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.