Johannesburg – Zandile Christmas Mafe, the man accused of setting a building at South Africa’s Parliament alight last week has been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, prosecutors revealed during Tuesday’s appearance at the Cape Town magistrate’s court. The state further said that it wants Mafe to be committed to a mental institution for 30 days for observation, to decide whether he is fit to stand trial. The state further added a terrorism charge against Mafe. The 49-year-old also faces charges of housebreaking with intent to steal and theft, two counts of arson, and possession of an explosive device. While prosecutors want Mafe to be admitted for observation at the Valkenberg psychiatric facility, the defence, Advocate Dali Mpofu wanted bail to be granted to the accused. Mafe, according to his family, relocated from Mahikeng in the North West to Cape Town in 2000 to seek greener pastures. Mafe’s aunt, Nomfu Elsie Matiwane, 72, told Sunday World that she raised him, adding that he is not an unscrupulous person. “Zandile was born and bred here at Lonely Park in Mahikeng. He started his grade 1 at Signal Hill Primary School before he proceeded to Sebopiwa Middle School,” said Matiwane, adding that he finished his grade 11 at Lapologang Secondary School before he left for Cape Town in 2000. “I personally raised him because his parents passed away while they were still young. His mother had seven children. Unfortunately, only two are left. “Zandile has a brother, Khalephile Mafe, who is a South African National Defence Force soldier.” Court proceedings are expected to continue on Tuesday following an adjournment. Also read: Advocate Dali Mpofu joins Zandile Mafe’s legal team Zandile Mafe charged with terrorism Family and friends of Zandile Mafe are shocked and still in disbelief Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 