Johannesburg – After months of anticipation, the housemates for Big Brother Mzansi season 3 were introduced to viewers and each other in a two-hour extravaganza premiere. Big Brother host Lawrence Maleka introduced the Housemates who made the final cut from the more than 9,000 people who auditioned for Big Brother Mzansi “Congratulations to the new housemates on an experience like no other, and one that will undoubtedly change many of their lives. We wish them well in the House. We’re excited to have the show back on air as it’s something viewers have been anticipating, and we have no doubt that they will not be disappointed, said Shirley Adonisi, Director of Local Entertainment Channels at M-Net. To catch all the drama, twists, Saturday night parties, and eviction show on Big Brother Mzansi, sign up or upgrade to DStv Compact”, she concluded The housemates who will be enthralling audiences are: Adindu Asuzu aka Zino (21), Johannesburg A self-confessed mommy’s boy, this season’s youngest housemate describes himself as both bubbly and mellow. He reckons he won’t start drama – but will be the one to end it. He says his Nigerian side won’t let people take advantage of him. Gashwan Brandon Mthombeni aka Gash1 (28), Pretoria Having overcome a troubled past, Gash1 is a deep thinker with varied interests and talents. He’s deeply spiritual and enjoys giving people advice and motivation. Gugu Refiloe Bonga aka Terry (26), Johannesburg Honest almost to her own detriment, the adult content creator says she has a very big personality and stands for acceptance and non-judgment. She doesn’t like fake people and considers herself to be very open. Keamogetswe Motlhale aka QV (23), Mahikeng The easy-going QV is a sharp-shooter and straight talker; she has no interest in keeping her annoyance to herself when someone gets on her wrong side. She describes herself as a tomboy. Libo Njomba aka Libo (32), Johannesburg Born in Uitenhage, Libo is an avid lover of life who enjoys the outdoors. He says people are his weakness, and – as a result – he tends to befriend “strange characters” – but also considers himself a loner. Luthando Mthembu aka B.U (31), Johannesburg The aspiring musician says one of the highlights of his life was quitting his high-flying corporate job to follow his artistic dreams. A vegan, he is focused on centering himself. Michelle Dimpho Mvundla aka Mphowabadimo (27), Daveyton The sangoma describes herself as outgoing and kind, but says she has “zero tolerance for nonsense”. A doting mom, she is a nurturer who loves cheering people up when they’re not feeling their best. Mvelo Ntuli aka Mvelo (28), Johannesburg Describing himself as loud and lovable, Mvelo is a lover of people who is passionate about education. Bubbly and candid, he hides a more complex side behind his infectious humour. Naledi Mogadime aka Nale (24), Pretoria A self-described “fine gyal, not a sad gyal”, the model is as much a firecracker as she is calm and zen. Her strength is being able to understand and analyse people. Naledi says she might not be everyone’s cup of tea in the beginning. Norman Nhlapo aka Norman (24), Johannesburg The daycare worker has an adaptable personality and is a sporty person. Despite a tough upbringing, he says his life has been a “bundle of blessings”. He runs a non-profit organization and daycare with his mother. Rethabile Potsane aka Dinkybliss (29), Johannesburg Fashion-loving and bubbly, Rethabile describes herself as “loud and proud” and says she can transform people’s moods and lift spirits when she is around. More of a boys’ girl than a girls’ girl, she enjoys socializing. Thando Mcopela aka Acacia  (30), Soweto Family orientated, Thando describes herself as a free spirit and a risk-taker. She’s a foodie who loves community and togetherness. She considers herself relatable and is as comfortable ekasi as she is in upmarket suburbs. Thato Mokoena aka Thato (28), Vaal Not one to limit herself, Thato is an accountant and TikToker who describes herself as a “world within worlds”. Bubbly and energetic, she’s bluntly honest and is comfortable with her transparent nature. Themba Karabo Mabaso aka Themba (30), Johannesburg The heavily inked tattoo artist describes himself as “simple”, “basic” and “normal”, and says despite his attention-grabbing looks, he doesn’t actively seek the spotlight. Thobeka Mtshali aka Venus (25), Richards Bay In her own words, when it comes to her “you just never know what you’re gonna get”. She embodies creativity: she writes music, makes beats, and plays the piano. She considers herself to be a layered person. Tulani Madala aka Tulz (28), Johannesburg A velvet-voiced straight-shooter, Tulani has a softness beneath his tough exterior. He says he’s single because he was badly behaved in the heyday of his radio DJ career. Ukho Samela aka Sis Tamara (25), Johannesburg The multifaceted and bubbly Ukho goes by the pronouns he/ him/ she/ her/ they/ them. Known as Sis Tamara, they describe themselves as “a gender non-conforming experience”. They are passionate about trans and queer representation. Yolanda Glover aka Yoli (30), Durban Outgoing and effervescent, Yolanda describes herself as “Berocca without the medicine”. She loves being around people and says they are drawn to her infectious energy. She can sometimes be too honest and upfront and says she’s an open book. Big Brother Mzansi season 3 is broadcast live 24/7 on DStv Channel 198. There is a daily highlight show on Mzansi Magic (DStv channel 161), Tuesdays to Fridays starting 25 January 2022 at 22.30. Sunday Eviction Shows begin on 30 January at 18:00 and will be broadcast on Mzansi Magic. This season will also see the return of fan-favorite Shower Hour (22:00pm, Mondays to Thursdays on channel 161), Saturday Night Parties with Channel O, and Friday night games. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here