Johannesburg – According to the reports, Real Madrid is keen to fork out a whopping contract fee valued at £41.6m (R864 million) to capture the services of the Paris Saint-Germain striker Kylian Mbappe. It is believed that Mbappe, has agreed to join the Los Blancos at the end of the 2021/22 campaign when his contract with PSG will expire. A pre-contract announcement is expected to be revealed. According to Salary Sport, Mbappe is set to pocket R864 million a year in wages at the Santiago Bernabeu, which would make him Real’s highest-paid player. The 23-year-old hit the headlines since last year, where he has been linked with a potential move to the La Liga side, and these rumours have now surfaced as true, as the PSG sporting director Leonardo told the media that Madrid has been snitching behind their back to win services of the French forward. He labeled the Los Blancos as “disrespectful” by being pursuit of Mbappe without involving them as the owners of the club. Leonardo said the footballer may leave PSG, but that will be determined by the Les Parisiens’ terms and conditions. In October last year, Mbappe confirmed rumours that he is keen to join Madrid, this followed a public spat between the two clubs. “I asked to leave because, from the moment where I did not want to extend, I wanted for the club to receive a transfer fee so that they could bring in a quality replacement. “This club has given me a lot, I have always been happy [during] the four years I have had here, and I still am. “I said it early enough so that the club could react,” said Mbappe last year. However, he insisted that was open to having one last season with Mauricio Pochettino’s side before he jumps to La Liga. In 2017, Mbappe signed for PSG on an initial loan, which was made permanent in 2018 in a transfer worth £120 million (R2.5 billion), which made him both the second-most expensive player and most expensive teenager. For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.