Johannesburg-The Covid-19 pandemic has changed many things, including the beauty industry, as many people turned to more holistic and do-it-yourself (DIY) treatments. Toni Carroll, the founder of premium beauty supplement brand My Beauty Luv, said trends this year include ingestible beauty and medical-grade solutions, as well as cruelty-free products. She said in a still uncertain world, the one thing that should remain important is self-care. Nutricosmetics, which have been around since the 1980s, is being revolutionized. They are nutritional supplements to care for skin, nails, hair, and working from the inside. People now want products that are able to enhance their health and looks without negative side effects, like those containing collagen, peptides, proteins, vitamins, carotenes, minerals, and omega-3 fatty acid. “Ingestible beauty is the future, but not all ingestible beauty supplements are created equal. Check the ingredients to ensure you get the best,” she advised. She also said it was expected that more plant-derived (rather than laboratory-created) ingredients will be high in demand. “New scientific methods for testing, extracting, and processing plant-derived ingredients like chlorophyll are now available. Still, be skeptical of ingredients that suddenly reach god-like status – make sure there’s enough research backing your beauty choices.” Chlorophyll is the rich green pigment that gives plants on land and water their color. A few studies have found that ointments containing chlorophyll are more effective than standard over-the-counter ointments at healing skin and reducing pain when applied to wounds. Studies also show that mild to moderate acne can be improved in less than a month. There are also ingestible forms of chlorophyll in the form of drops and capsules. Food groups like spinach, broccoli, matcha tea, and green cabbage also have an ample supply of this and are cheaper on the pocket. It’s ideal for inflammation, irritation, and signs of aging. Vegan skin-care products that do not contain any animal ingredient including dairy, eggs, fur, wool, honey, collagen, stearic acid, beeswax, or even lesser-known products like rennet are also gaining traction. She also said beauty treatments moving to anti-stress rather than anti-aging treatments are a step forward. “Beauty has become more holistic as we start to understand the connection between stress and aging. It will continue to grow and brands will start to evolve too, to accommodate this awakening,” said Carroll. Anti-stress skin-care may not actually do much to alleviate mental stress, but it is able to soothe the outward symptoms of it. Like a pimple that pops up before a major event. Carroll added that home-care solutions will continue to grow with people investing in medical aesthetic professional skin-care brands offering medical-grade solutions. “Home galvanic machines, home laser, and home light therapy devices have advanced significantly, so the trend to use home-care beauty devices will grow,” added Carroll. At-home LED (light-emitting diode) light therapy devices are said to promote skin elasticity and production of collagen, reduce acne and redness, and don’t burn the skin like the sun. But it’s advisable to wear protective eyewear when using LED devices. A galvanic facial is basically a non-surgical facelift. The device is said to help improve hydration levels and blood circulation to the face, improve muscle tone and firmness, clear blocked pores, and improve blemishes and dark spots. When it comes to hair removal, techniques have improved from the ghastly razor and painful wax to buying small machines that enable you to zap away hair yourself. When it comes to blue light, particularly from laptops, TVs, and cellphone screens, sunscreen lotions won’t work. This light can cause damage to the eyes. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here