The backdrop to this year’s budget is two years of Covid-19 and our future recovery efforts. Households are cash-strapped and trying to make ends meet arising from job losses and business failures due to the ravages of the pandemic. Though, in the main, the budget is “better than expected a year ago”, job losses, mass unemployment, and poor service delivery still loom large. The table below reflects the proposed personal tax tables for individuals and special trusts: Income tax year 2022/2023  The table below reflects the proposed tax rebates for individuals: The primary, secondary and tertiary rebates will be increased by 4.5%.  The change in the rebate will mean that persons with taxable income as follows will pay no tax.  The few examples below illustrate the difference in tax paid by individuals in the 2022/23 tax year from that paid in the 2021/2022 tax year based on the tax tables and rebates.  No changes were announced. With effect from March 1, 2018, the estate duty rate was increased from 20% to 25% for estates worth R30-million and more. To limit the staggering of donations to avoid the higher estate duty rate, any donations above R30-million in one tax year are also taxed at 25%. There was no increase in the VAT rate from the current 15%. No changes were announced to the taxation of capital gains. The capital gains tax inclusion rates remain as follows: No change. The interest rate exemptions will not be adjusted for inflation. Individuals will be encouraged to invest in the new tax-free savings accounts instead. In the circumstances, the threshold at which tax is paid on interest income remains the same.  The government proposes an inflationary increase to the value of the medical tax credits in 2022/2023 from R332 per month to R347 for the first two beneficiaries, and from R224 per month to R347 for the remaining beneficiaries. It is a welcome surprise that we are continuing to see inflationary increases in the medical tax credits because it was announced in the 2018 Budget Review that the credit would be adjusted by less than inflation to help fund the rollout of national health insurance over the medium term.  No change. The amount that can be contributed to a tax-free savings account is R36 000 per year. The lifetime allowance is R500 000. No change. The social security grants are increased as follows: No change. The amount that can be contributed to a tax-free savings account is R36 000 per year. The lifetime allowance is R500 000. No change. The social security grants are increased as follows:   The plastic bag levy will increase from 25c per bag to 28c. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.