Johannesburg- Real Housewives of Durban star Nonku Williams has recently taken to social media to call out people who have been cyberbullying her. Nonku received some backlash after the first episode of the second season of RHOD aired on Showmax last week. “Allow me to re-introduce myself. My name is Nonkululeko Williams. I’m loved, blessed, and highly favoured woman of The Most High God! I’m blessed with 3 amazing beautiful children. I have siblings and parents that love me unconditionally. I’m a respected businesswoman and work very hard to provide for my family.” “For a long time, I have kept quiet and not responded to some of the most insinuating comments on social media but it’s time I speak up. I have a voice and as long as I have breath in my body I will never stop speaking and saying enough is enough.” “Enough of cyberbullying, and people thinking they are entitled to someone’s life they know nothing about.” “The 20% of my life that people see on screens think entitles them to make judgments and conclusions about my life is beyond me and their level of reasoning. I can only conclude this by saying it’s a reflection of who they are and how they perceive themselves.” “I can only thank The Mighty God who has approved of me and loves me so much that others 2cents opinions of me have no effect on me whatsoever, in fact, I can only pray for them. If Jesus, The King of Glory was ridiculed and spat on who am I?” “For those that love, understand and support me I thank you and am grateful to you, and those that don’t I thank you as you serve as a reminder that helps my faith grow stronger in The Lord,” she wrote.  In the latest episode of RHOD fans of the show took to social media and called out Nonku and her mother to be removed from the reality show.      Also Read: RHOD fans exhilarated for its return For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.