Johannesburg- Three years ago, he introduced the AfricaRise store, which incorporates not only fashion but accessories and art too. This week, he expanded by introducing the beauty, natural hair-care, and wellness department to its three branches (Sandton City, 66 Anderson Street Joburg City, and Menlyn Mall. Thula Sindi said his vision has always been to create a beautiful space filled with all things African. This even includes books by Blackbird Publishing. “It’s very important to have spaces of beauty in commercial retail centers, and AfricaRise is the vehicle to bring African fashion, craft, jewelry, accessories, fine art, and now cosmetics under one roof,” he said. “We will continue to serve as a platform for creators and designers to find expression. The business is collaborative in nature, which is one of the ways in which it aims to forge a community of innovators with a similar vision.” Sindi related how the effects of the pandemic delayed the project, but that it was finally coming together. “2022 is all about recovery and growth. Going forward, we aim to open new physical stores and expand our digital footprint with our online store, everyone should be able to get their hands on beautiful African-made products no matter where they are in the world.” The wellness department, he said, consists of scented candles, aromatic oils, and some essential oils. While the art in-store is expressionist portrait paintings by Durban-based Zamani Grootboom and Ndebele contemporary canvases by Zemigwalo He personally curates the brands to feature in his stores but said many other brands also pitch their offerings. “AfricaRise stocks different brands at different price points by independent creators who have pitched their products at different price points, but most of the beauty products in the store are great value for money and top quality products.” Sindi said the vision was also to expose good quality products made and owned locally. “There are 10 specially selected brands that will be part of this exciting addition to AfricaRise. PurPul Hair and Masodi Organics are two of the brands with hair-care products. They are their own best ambassadors and both companies are black women-owned, locally produced, and focus on creating gentle, natural yet effective hair products that seek to lovingly treat African hair instead of wrestling it into submission.” Sindi said customers will also be delighted to know that Naked Skin by Shaldon Kopman of Naked Ape fame, an acclaimed men’s wear designer, also stocks his Shaldon’s range of unisex fragrances and body butter for the sophisticated and sensational South African. “AfricaRise is not just four walls and a door. It is a lifestyle committed to the values of authenticity, innovation, and quality without compromise. We are Africans and we have a collective duty to rise,” said the designer. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here