Enhance your relationship this Valentine’s month by starting an exercise program with your partner. Studies have shown that exercising with a partner is an easy way to keep motivation levels high. Regular exercise, says Herbalife nutrition experts, has many proven mental and physical health benefits. But finding the motivation to exercise tends to be a bit challenging for most people. Not sure where to start? Try an early Sunday morning hike. Pack some snacks, grab your better half, and head out to your nearest hiking trail.  Hiking is said to reduce stress and improve cardiovascular fitness. And it doesn’t have to be too strenuous at all. Start slow, choose a shorter trail, and get a good conversation going. This could also be a great opportunity to get some quality time in.  To make this a more regular form of exercise, walk around your neighbourhood during the week. This way, you can build up your fitness and tackle the more intimidating trails when you’re ready.  You can also ask your partner to join you in a at-home HIIT workout. High intensity interval training (HIIT) alternates short periods of intense anaerobic exercise with brief recovery periods.  These exercises usually require limited equipment or none at all. It’s best to start with shorter, easier to manage workouts and progress to longer, more challenging ones when you’ve built up some stamina. Try a Dance class. Dancing is a great way to get that heart pumping and blood flowing, and it’s also a lot of fun, especially when you rocking it with your love.  For a cost-effective dance party, head to YouTube. The platform has countless dance class videos on offer. From jazzercize to ballroom dancing, there’s bound to be something for the two of you to enjoy from the comfort of your own home. Couples who yoga together are said to have greater intimacy, improved communication, trust, and reduced stress. Research shows that practising yoga can help improve your strength, flexibility, and balance. You could try some partner poses and you don’t have to be super flexible to try yoga out either – start with some basic poses and once you’ve gained your confidence in those, move to the more complicated ones.