Born in Khathu, the hub of iron-ore mining in the Northern Cape, Sanna Sebone has dared to enter the male-dominated construction industry. Armed with a quantity surveying degree, she was made for the industry. Sebone founded Sibonge Construction in 2018, using her own money, which she had saved for 12 years while working at various companies. Today, her business has created employment for 179 workers, with the number continually increasing. Like any entrepreneur, her journey in the cut-throat business world has not been without challenges. She initially struggled to attract clients in the highly competitive industry. Sebone then sought the support of Anglo American’s enterprise development arm, Zimele, which helped her take her business to the next level. After robust training, her business experienced a 187% growth in revenue during the nine-month training programme. “Being in the construction industry as a woman is tough and challenging, however, you need to be focused and level-headed to get things done. I needed to learn the dynamics of the business while looking for new opportunities in the industry to grow Sibonge Construction. After receiving intensive training and support in financial management, marketing, and growth strategies through Zimele, I managed to improve how I run my business and get in full swing of pushing for bigger projects.” Sebone says she believes in empowering others, mainly women, to grow within the industry to make their mark through hard work, and their will to get to the top. “There is no project that is created for a particular gender or race, but as a person with capabilities, you can grow and build a legacy for yourself. “This is the reason I had to get into construction with a positive mindset and focus to create waves and success in what I do. I project myself as a passionate person who applies her skills with her team to effect and execute all the projects we get involved in through diligence and greatness,” she said. For more business news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here