During the moth of July the focus of wellness is feeling good in the workplace. Given that a healthy body and brain enable you to function at your best, it is important to take both into account. Omy Naidoo, co-founder of Newtricion Wellness Dieticians said: “Having a job can be beneficial to an individual in many aspects. However, some people experience substantial workplace stress, which jeopardises their health.” Employees often complain that work-related stress negatively impacts their performance and health. Research conducted by the South African Depression and Anxiety Group shows that more than 40% of all work-related illnesses are caused by work-related stress, major depression, burnout, and anxiety disorders. Naidoo said maintaining brain health can help you stay balanced and productive at work. These are some tips on how you can maintain a healthy mind at work: • Take breaks frequently You do not have to stay at your desk the entire day to remain productive. Ensure that you take breaks frequently to be able to refocus your mind and have a fresh outlook on your work. In order to retain a healthy mind and body, normalise getting some fresh air and eating healthy foods during your break. • Ensure you get enough sleep Ensure that you sleep at least eight hours a day. Getting sufficient sleep the night before work can help you stay focused and productive. The best way to improve the quality of your sleep is to create a bedtime routine and limit your distractions. As a result, you will be less likely to feel tired at work during the day. • Make exercise a part of your daily routine Your physical health and energy can be boosted by exercising throughout the day. Taking a walk during your break can be a simple way to exercise to maintain a healthy mind and body. Exercising can be beneficial for your mental health. This will improve your memory, brain function, and stress relief. • Maintain a healthy diet Keeping your mind healthy is as important as keeping your body healthy. A well-balanced diet can contribute to brain and body health in this regard since it will have a significant impact on how you function on a daily basis. Furthermore, eating well can help improve your concentration and memory, as well as protect you from mental health problems such as depression and anxiety. • Manage stress Being stressed can lead to forgetfulness and disorganisation, affecting productivity at work. You may feel depressed, lose concentration, have difficulty remembering, or have difficulty paying attention. In order to maintain a healthy mind, it is recommended that you deal with stress. “Many people now recognise the significance of physical health but do not give their mental health the same attention. This causes many people to overlook that having a healthy mind has a significant impact on how your brain works on a daily basis. In order to maintain your productivity at work, it is important to look after your physical and mental health,” said Naidoo. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.