Today marks International Nelson Mandela Day, a day to give back to the community and those who are less fortunate. Mandela Day is an occasion for all to act and inspire change. The 67 minutes campaign encourages everyone to take 67 minutes of their time on the day to do something for someone else or their community. This year, Shwa is calling on all celebrities and wanna-be celebs to use their 67 minutes wisely, stop showing off on social media and to do something good. By the way you don’t have to post about it, do it from the bottom of your heart, if you have any. MaMkhize is a good example of how to give back to society, remember she built houses for those affected by the floods in KwaZulu-Natal? Shwa applauds you for that although some people had their two cents opinion. Is it possible to give back on Mandela Day again, it doesn’t have to be anything big but a little goes a long way? Somizi Mhlongo, for once please stop telling people how poor they are and start donating shoes and clothes that you no longer use. We all know you have a wardrobe full of clothes and things you hardly use, please try to give back to orphanages or street kids. While you’re at that, you can burn your wedding outfit, nobody who hopes for love ever after would want it. Or maybe try out Lebo M, he is experienced in marriages collapsing sooner than they had started. Bonang Matheba, we all know you’re back in Mzansi, well we don’t really know but you are spending most of your time. Perhaps Queen B you can start giving back to society and donate to charity, do it for Madiba. Cassper has made a lot of money through his numerous investments. When is he giving back to society? C’mon Mufasa, help the less fortunate instead of bragging about your mansion and sports cars. The great Mandela was known among other things for his forgiving spirit. Shwa also calls on the following celebrities and personalities to use the 67 minutes to place a call to people they have wronged and wave the white flag. Bujy Bikwa, it will not hurt you to call Boity Thulo and unconditionally apologise for throwing a glass at her. No man should ever do that, and that gimmick of participating in a 5km walk against gender-based violence doesn’t cut it. AKA, if you still have Da L.E.S’ address, pay the man a visit and sort out whatever issues you might have. God knows even Mandela Day would not bring Somizi and Mohale to smoke the peace pipe, so, Shwa would not even bother with the two. Like most South Africans, Shwa will wait for the 5th of August to hear what Mohale has to say about his “abusive” ex. Andile and Sithelo, history has no blank pages. The mud you’re throwing at each other will follow you for years to come. For the sake of your two beautiful kids, consider reconciliation, deal? For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.