Known as the City of Heritage and the heartland of the Zulu Kingdom, Ulundi has turned its fortunes around making it one of the highly sought-after tourism destinations in the province. Over the years, the area which was once the legislative capital of KwaZulu-Natal had struggled to rekindle the rural economy and tourism spin-offs that came with the location of the provincial parliament in the region. When the new political dispensation under the ANC took the reins, it resolved to relocate the legislature to Pietermaritzburg, the province’s midlands taking a chunk of the local economy with it. But Thulasizwe Buthelezi, mayor of Zululand district municipality, believes that deciding to leverage on the legacy of IFP founder Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi had augured well for local economic development in the region. The Prince Mangosuthu Legacy Cup has become an annual draw card and key signature event for the rural area. “The Mangosuthu Legacy Cup is not only about celebrating the indelible mark that Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi has made for South Africa and the struggle for emancipation. It is also about selling the rich history of the Zululand district to outside visitors,” said Buthelezi. The football tournament, which was last played in 2018 but was laid off for four years, is coming back this year and promises to be a fun-filled one-day affair with PSL champions Mamelodi Sundowns expected to be one of the crowd pullers. It also features two other PSL football outfits in AmaZulu FC and rookies Richards Bay FC and one amateur football team from the area. The tournament will also be graced by dignitaries and international scouts who will be looking for young talents to groom. It is scheduled for July 23. Revellers will also be treated to a cultural feast. Apart from the football spectacle, Buthelezi said the district was also hard at work developing the local airport to meet national standards. Once completed, the airport will offer direct flights to major cities in the country. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here