After seeing that video of Kelly Khumalo confidently boasting about how she introduced Senzo Meyiwa to the entire country, shwa is convinced kukhona inte-off with Kelly. Aibo girl! so you’re saying Meyiwa became famous after dating you? A whole Bafana Bafana captain at the time and a start player for Orlando Pirates player, one of the biggest teams in South Africa. I must say this must be comical to say the least. Shwashwi hardly comes across such blondness. And where did you buy that irritating accent? Perhaps we should blame it on the loadshedding, maybe her mind is unplugged. Her career was in shambles when she met the late Senzo, her ex was in jail and she was not getting the attention she was yearning for. Kelly that interview you had and the statement regarding Senzo made me CRINGE! Do you have any idea the magnitude of Senzo’s talent? How far or where would Senzo be in his soccer career if you were not a side chick efostayo. Meyiwa was the number one Rival of Itumeleng Khune and you have the nerve to say no one knew Senzo. The audacity of her claim is uncalled for.  Why would the whole country throw a lavish funeral and memorial service back in 2014 which was held at eThekwini’s Moses Mabhida Stadium where ten thousands of people attended if Senzo was not the man he was? Oh, Shwa almost forgot you were banned by the family for attending so perhaps you never got to see how popular Senzo? Let me remind you of Meyiwa’s career because you need to get off your high horse. He began his football career as a striker for hometown club London Cosmos in Umlazi in the 1990s. Meyiwa later converted to the goalkeeper position and went on to represent KwaZulu-Natal in the Transnet Under-14 and Coca-Cola Under-17 Inter-Provincial tournaments in 2000 as a 13-year-old. His performances caught the eye of Orlando Pirates scouts, who brought him to the club’s development programme. After that Meyiwa made his debut for Orlando Pirates in a 2-1 win over AmaZulu on November 8, 2006. In 2013 Meyiwa’s career took a dramatic turn as he remained on the number one position at Orlando Pirates and was the team’s best player to the final of the CAF Champions League. Not only was he the first choice goalkeeper, but he was also the captain.