SuperSport United have brought back Gavin Hunt to revive the fortunes of the Pretoria-based football club. Hunt won three consecutive PSL league titles with Matsatsantsa a Pitori in 2007/08, 2008/09 and 2009/10 seasons, a feat that is yet to be matched. While announcing the return of Hunt, the club also took the opportunity to dismiss reports that it is on the verge of being sold. “Gavin knows the DNA of the club and he has that winning mentality we are looking for,” said SuperSport United CEO Stan Matthews. “The board sat down and Gavin stood out because he has won trophies with us. He knows the people and the personalities here, the backroom staff is still very much here. We have good continuity in our staff and some of the coaches he left here, like Grant Johnson and Andre Arendse, are still here. “So, for us Gavin was a comfort factor and a low-risk factor. He won another league title with Bidvest Wits. We have not finished in the top four since he left the club and we want to be consistent with the top runners in the league.” Hunt said he had a lengthy discussion with the club’s CEO, adding that he is excited about getting his hands dirty in developing young players “because that is the future of the team and an opportunity to take the team in the right direction.” “I have always felt that the DNA of the club attracted me to the club. They always wanted to win and you want to work at such a club as a coach,” said Hunt. “Even when I left [SuperSport], I always kept an eye on their results. They have always been close to my heart and they have been consistent in reaching cup finals and winning trophies. Am I the same guy who left? I say football will humble you and it can throw a curveball at you. Club chairman Khulu Sibiya said the news that the club is up for sale has shocked everyone at United. “This came as a surprise to us. Nobody ever approached us regarding the sale of the club or shown an interest in buying the club,” said Sibiya. “We want to assure our supporters and all [the people] associated with the club that we are not for sale and the club is up and running. People who think they are destabilising the club, they are making a big mistake because we are in business of running a well-oiled and smooth-running club.” For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.