Cycling is regarded as a lifestyle sport in the townships, but there may be perceptions it is not worth pursuing as a professional career. This stems from the notion bicycles are thought of as toys that should be left to the younger ones. Doctor Mofokeng founded the cycling movement BoniandBike from his home in Hospital View, Kagiso, on the West Rand. The cycling club gathers cycling enthusiasts and professionals to tour Kagiso and neighbouring communities to preach the advantages of cycling to young and old in the townships. The club host social events and create a lifestyle out of it by engaging with each other and embarking on cycling adventures on mountain trails. “I figured that we should continue with cycling because there are benefits as a lifestyle and as a sport, especially for people who come from previously disadvantaged backgrounds. “We need to take the opportunity and use cycling as a tool against challenges we face,” said Mofokeng. He says one of the reasons township people are not fond of the sport is because they feel it is expensive for someone from a disadvantaged background to take up. Mofokeng believes that had there been structures to motivate a culture of cycling, many would have seen the possibilities of a future as a professional cyclist. “The inspiration came when I realised that the cars we drive have bicycle stands, you can see that people love cycling. “We welcome everyone using any bicycle, we are a community of bicycle enthusiasts. “We fuse together two things that we know we enjoy as a community. We cycle in the morning doing a fun ride where everyone comes and offer semi-long rides for professionals. “Later in the afternoon we have a market where we host picnics. This is where we bring in hustlers to push their products,” said Mofokeng. Vutta Cycling Club is the brainchild of a group of friends from Daveyton, who wanted to get children off the streets. Thabiso Molehe, Thuto Moloko Radebe, John Chiloane, Scelo Mngabashe and Boitumelo Ramosodbi, launched the cycling club in April. They broke away from the Impongo Cycling Club as they believed it did not serve their interests. Moloko said the club aims to make cycling fashionable in the townships, even though it is rather pricey. They have successfully participated at the 947 Ride Joburg and hope the youth will also experience the real world of cycling. Co-founder Molehe emphasised that the club was not specifically created for the youth as it also empowers elders to maintain good health. “It is also a coping mechanism for us. When we cycle, we forget about our problems,” said Molehe. Speaking to Sunday World, Nomsombuluko Radebe said cycling saved her life. She was diagnosed with anaemia but her condition has improved since she joined the club and can now maintain her weight. She even recruited her daughter to the club. “I did not even have to convince her, she fell in love with it from seeing me cycle and she asked to join,” she said. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here