A tribute concert to one of the most celebrated iconic public figures in the South African music industry Johnny Clegg is set to take place on Sunday. The tribute concert will feature some of South Africa’s top performers. The concert will take place at the Emmarentia Botanical Gardens and will mark the third anniversary of Johnny’s passing. Clegg had the special quality of being able to unite people across all backgrounds and generations with his music. The tribute concert will feature musicians on stage that will commemorate his life and musical career, including the likes of lifetime friend Sipho Mchunu, Soweto Gospel Choir, Just Jinjer, Sipho Hotstix Mabuse, Karen Zoid, The One Who Sings (Zolani Mahola), Francois van Coke, Springbok Nude Girls, Majozi, Ross Learmonth, Kurt Darren, Arno Carstens, Jesse Clegg, and the Johnny Clegg band. The One Who sings (Zolani Mahola) said: “I am so happy to be included in this tribute to the late great that was Johnny Clegg. His legacy of what it is to truly be oneself and share that self with the world has in no small way I am sure contributed to who I am today. I am The One Who Sings because Johnny Clegg and other giants like him sang their heart songs loud and clear for all to hear. And for that, he shall never be forgotten.” Soweto Gospel Choir said, “Soweto Gospel Choir is truly honoured to be a part of the Johnny Clegg Tribute concert, alongside so many South African music legends.  Just as Johnny was a legend.  We had a 15-year association and friendship with Johnny, sharing the stage with him many times. We admired his talent, his mentorship and his friendship immensely, as he became part of our Soweto Gospel Choir family. We will always keep his legacy in our hearts.” “I really have fond memories of Johnny and all the work he did. He adored me and I adored him. Johnny gave so much to the cultural and music language of this country and it is an honour to be on the bill to pay tribute to a giant,“ said Sipho Hotstix Mabuse. Randall Abrahams, CEO of Primedia Broadcasting said: “Johnny was, and will always be, an icon in South African music. And in our broader society – Johnny managed to build bridges and foster social cohesion like no other entertainer has done. His legacy should be celebrated and his flame kept alive.” For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.