The campaign to block SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande from returning as a party official has intensified ahead of the party’s 15th elective congress starting on Wednesday. Sunday World has established that Frans Baleni, the former general secretary of the National Union of Mineworkers, is being punted to be national chairperson by a group that is opposed to Nzimande ascending to the position. While there was consensus that Solly Mapaila, the party’s first deputy secretary, should succeed Nzimande, there are divisions over the composition of the organisation’s top six leadership positions. Provinces such as Eastern Cape, Western Cape and North West want an overhaul of the party’s top leadership, and are pushing back against the campaign to make Nzimande the national chairperson. KwaZulu-Natal is leading the charge to retain Nzimande as chair. At the weekend provinces were holding their provincial councils to consolidate their positions leading up to the congress. A slate opposed to Nzimande’s leadership has emerged, which punts Mapaila as general secretary, Eastern Cape’s Xolile Nqatha as first deputy general secretary, replacing Mapaila; Alex Mashilo as the second deputy secretary, succeeding Chris Matlhako; Baleni replacing Senzeni Zokwana; Nomalungelo Gina succeeding Thulas Nxesi; and Reneva Fourie replacing Joyce Moloi-Moropa. Jongumzi Cengani, the SACP Chris Hani regional district secretary, said Nzimande should be redeployed as a party veteran. “Our view as a region, in agreement with other regions and various provinces, is that it is time for the GS [Nzimande] to rest now. He has led the party for many years. Under his leadership we made some gains and had some setbacks.” Former Young Communist League spokesperson Dloze Matooane echoed Cengani’s sentiments, saying they will push for young leaders to occupy some key positions in the party’s central committee. “As for comrade Blade, there wouldn’t be something wrong if he decides to pass the baton to someone else because he has led the SACP with distinction.” However, those supporting Nzimande said he still had a role to play in the party’s top six. “We are not factional in our approach but nobody can argue that comrade Blade has not done exceptionally well in his current portfolio. There’s nothing wrong with him availing himself again to lead the organisation. “As Moses Mabhida region, we must not be viewed as supporting him because he is from the province, but because he is capable. There is also consensus that as Moses Mabhida province we would support comrade Solly,” a senior KZN leader said. SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo said: “Dr Nzimande has served the SACP with an unquestionable degree of commitment, loyalty and dedication, and he himself has said the party should elect a new general secretary.”  To read more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 