The owner of infamous Enyobeni tavern and two of his employees were arrested at the weekend and on Tuesday, respectively, the police said on Wednesday. The arrests followed a move by the Eastern Cape Liquor Board which laid criminal charges at the Scenery Park police station against the 52-year-old embattled owner and his co-accused aged 33 and 34. Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana said an investigation by the liquor board has found the trio guilty of contravening the Liquor Act. The two employees were concomitantly fined R2 000 each while summons were served to the owner for his immediate arrest and appearance in the court of law. Said Kinana: “Among others, the investigation also focused on alleged violation or contravention of the Eastern Cape Liquor Act by permitting or conniving for the selling or supplying of alcohol to children under the age of 18 and for selling or supplying alcohol to children under the age of 18. “The tavern owner is expected to appear at the East London magistrate’s court on August 19 to face the said charges. The two employees have been given an option of a fine in terms of the Liquor Act. Should they fail to pay the fine, they will be required to appear in the same court on 19 August 2022.” Kinana explained further: “The SAPS management has reaffirmed its commitment to ensuring that all the investigations around the Scenery Park tragic incident are conducted in a more professional and well-organised manner for a successful prosecution and subsequent conviction in the court of law. “Forensic investigation into the cause of death of the 21 children in Enyobeni tavern is still ongoing. As indicated earlier, at an appropriate time and conclusion of the investigation, the results will be made available to the affected families. There are no new developments at this stage.” Provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nomthetheleli Mene said: “Just as we said in the beginning, the investigation is a process and needs to be treated with extreme care and wisdom so that we can achieve the desired outcomes. This is the beginning of the great work we are doing behind the scene.” Meanwhile, Petros Mntambo, the owner of a Pietermaritzburg tavern where 12 people were shot at the weekend, has apologised to the families of the deceased and those who were injured during the attack. Mntambo said although the shooting happened at his establishment, he does not take responsibility for the ambush because security measures are always in place. The police have since arrested two suspects and the motive for the shooting, which led to the deaths of four people, is still not known. Also read: Don&#8217;t blame parents of kids who died at Enyobeni &#8211; Ramaphosa Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.