The business partnership between sultry media personality Minnie Dlamini and her estranged husband Quinton Jones has crumbled after their much-publicised separation. Dlamini and Jones, who walked down the aisle on July 8 2017, announced their separation in a joint statement in February. They said they tried to save their five-year marriage in the past two years by consulting with their families and counsellors for advice but decided to go their separate ways when they couldn’t rekindle their love. “In the last two years our family has experienced incredible joy and devastating loss. During this time we found comfort in knowing we had each other. “Despite our better efforts to absorb the changes in motion, the emotional burden and post-traumatic distress of our individual loss far outweighed our will. After months of separation and consultations with our family and a counsellor, we have taken the decision to officially file for divorce,” said Dlamini in an
Instagram statement at the time. The former Metro FM presenter said though separated they would remain business partners and friends. “Despite the end of our marriage and romantic relationship, we remain friends, business partners and loving parents to our beautiful son,” according to her statement. But a source close to the former couple said Jones has changed his mind about the partnership and informed Dlamini that he had taken a decision to resign from their company, Beautiful Day Production. Jones, said a source, owns a 25% stake while Dlamini owns the rest of the shares in the company that produces television shows, among others. The tipster also said Jones informed the former SABC1 sports presenter that he will instruct his lawyers to file divorce papers as he has lost love for her. The deep throat said Jones told Dlamini he will also give her their house in Midrand where she will raise their child. “Remember, they were married by antenuptial contract, which is subject to accrual system.” Dlamini declined to comment and referred us to Jones, who did not respond to our calls and text messages. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.