Wearing a fragrance with a great scent is an act of elegance and confidence for Nomzamo Dhlamini, the founder and CEO of LUXO Emporium. Born in Katlehong in Ekurhuleni, Dhlamini has established a luxurious fragrance range for males, females and the LGBTQ+ community through a signature scent, which she describes as a sign of predominance and a gesture of good manners. Her business was formed last year after she was motivated by her mother to start her company. “LUXO, which means luxury in Portuguese, is a brand that aims to practise its CSR [corporate social responsibility] initiatives of changing lives and giving back to the less privileged. As a brand that ensures our clients feel good with our products, we also vouch to be active by committing to charitable organisations within our communities,” said Dhlamini. Dhlamini’s business specialises in perfumes, hand washes and diffusers. She said that like many other business that have struggled to get off the ground, she also experienced funding challenges. “My biggest challenge was funding as I had to find other ways to raise enough capital to build my brand. While we experienced challenges due to Covid-19, I became bold enough to start a business and believed that I could push to the limits. “My strategy of doing robust marketing worked through social media and networking,” she said. With four employees in the business, Dhlamini who is in her early 20s, said she is currently working on having pop-up stores for more exposure and brand awareness. “I’m also looking to collaborate with beauty influencers to create their very own fragrance collections under the LUXO Emporium brand. There is nothing more fulfilling for me than to create my own magic through mixing my fragrances for my clients. My intention is to grow my business and spread across Africa and also tapping into the global market.” Dhlamini, a marketing student, said women in South Africa need to use opportunities to explore business while building their brands. “We need to get ahead of things and ride the crest of success through our innovations and talents to build our own legacy as South African women. I believe that as young women, we can hold our own game and reach for the stars through hard work and passion. We need to motivate one another to do better and hold the bull by its horns on our way to the top as there is nothing impossible to be achieved,” she said. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.