The Real Housewives of Durban (RHOD) two-part reunion that airs tonight has a few surprises in store for the fans. Comics Choice Awards nominee Donovan Goliath is the host of the reunion, and one of the housewives, Londie London, has announced that she is pregnant and expects to welcome her bundle of joy in the next few weeks. One of the burning issues that Goliath sought to address is why Laconco does not like Thobile, and how she appears to be someone who always inherits beef. Nonku agreed with what Thobile was saying about Laconco and pointed out how much of a snake she is, because Laconco would say things in her diary session and later show her love and pretend all is well. To which Laconco replied: “Maybe it’s the type of character I am, I respect Musa Mseleku and his wives. Someone’s attitude and personality are not the same, so for you to call me a devil is something else.” Laconco repli Donovan then asked what was the straw that broke the camel’s back in Laconco and Londie’s friendship, leading to what she said at Sun City. “If you are friends, there are certain things that you need to know about someone without asking yourself a lot of questions about their life. If you have more questions than answers, then you can’t call that person your friend,” said Londie. To which Laconco replied: “Your public domain is not the same as mine, our past experiences are not the same and I would not want them to be the same.” Londie said when all the housewives were asking certain questions when they had a meeting, she realised that she knew nothing about Laconco, which made her question their friendship. Donovan touched on a lot of friendship dynamics between the ladies and how some of them panned out in the second season of RHOD. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.