Former The Queen actor Sthembiso “SK” Khoza’s ex-fiancée, Ayanda Hlongwane, has broken her silence and revealed the reasons for dumping the controversial thespian after two years of their fairytale romance, which hogged media headlines. Hlongwane and Khoza’s romance started faltering last year after she opened a case of assault against him, accusing him of beating her up in their Fourways home in
Johannesburg. Khoza was arrested and expected to appear in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court on a charge of assault but she withdrew the case against him, leaving a legion of fans asking whether she did so because they had rekindled their love. In an exclusive interview with Sunday World, Hlongwane, a dentist with a string of surgeries in Gauteng, said she kicked the award-winning actor to the kerb after a series of physical and verbal abuse that resulted in her miscarriage of their first child. She also said the actor also impregnated his side chick whom he introduced to her as his friend when they bumped into each other for the first time in Boksburg in 2020. Hlongwane spilled the beans after SK announced on an Instagram Live talkshow called Ama Tyma with TT Mbha on Tuesday, that Hlongwane had lied about the assault and that she withdrew the case of her own volition because she wanted him back in her loving arms. Hlongwane, who intermittently broke down as she narrated the alleged abuse she suffered at Khoza’s hands outside her consulting rooms in Spruitview, said she started dating the award-winning actor after meeting him and his baby mama at her residential complex in
Boksburg on her birthday in May 2020. She said when he told her that he had the hots for her, she asked him about the woman, and he told her that they were just friends. She said after several sexual encounters, she fell pregnant. Hlongwane alleged she unfortunately suffered a miscarriage after Khoza subjected her to a barrage of verbal abuse for no apparent reason. She said after the abuse Khoza disappeared for a while before he returned to apologise. She said they later moved into an apartment in Fourways for him to be closer to The Queen studios in Ruimsig. She said Khoza physically assaulted her in front of their friends after accusing her of sharing the news of the miscarriage with his sister. “Remember, he introduced me to his sister and said I could talk to her about anything because at that time I was struggling to cope with my miscarriage. He hit me on my chest and pushed me to the floor several times and when I tried to stand up he grabbed me, pushed me back on to the floor again. I sustained injuries to my knee, head and my fingers.” She said afterwards he got into a vehicle belonging to his friend and drove off. Hlongwane said he returned later and apologised and said he did that to her because his father had abused him when he was younger. She said after a few days, they went to some event in Durban where he screamed and shouted at her in front of patrons. “We were seated and he stood up and said he was going to the loo to pee. Some gogos apparently had asked to take a selfie with him but he refused and started insulting them. “He then came to me and asked me to come with him so I could witness him insulting these grannies and when I refused, he screamed and shouted at me,” she said. She said his brother, Abdul Khoza, a former Isibiya actor, then took him to a hotel room and apologised to her for his brother’s behaviour. She said when she returned to Joburg she went back to live with her sister. She said she lodged a complaint of assault against him at the Boksburg police station and the case was later transferred to the Douglasdale police who arrested him. Hlongwane said she withdrew the case after Khoza and friends asked her to do so and urged them to go for mediation. “But the mediation did not take place, and now I’m going to fight for this case to go to court,” she said. “I want justice because he is not remorseful for what he did to me and has accused me of fabricating this case against him.” Hlongwane showed Sunday World a letter from Khoza’s lawyer, which states that it was in fact the actor and not Hlongwane, as he claimed on TT Mbha’s interview, who requested mediation. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 