Music producer Chicco Twala’s son Longwe has been in rehab for the past five months, trying to exorcise the demons of drugs, his father says. Twala talked about the impact the allegations that Longwe might have been the person who gunned down former Orlando Pirates captain Senzo Meyiwa in 2014 have had on him and his family. “The Senzo Meyiwa issue has affected my reputation, and also created a lot of faceless enemies for me and my family, especially on social media. “The police did question me regarding Meyiwa’s death, but the questions were associated with my licensed firearm, which they took for ballistic testing. He [Longwe] is my son. We do talk occasionally. He is presently at a rehab centre in Pretoria.” Five men are facing trial for the murder of Meyiwa in Kelly Khumalo’s home in Vosloorus eight years ago. In the house on that fateful day were Meyiwa, Kelly, her sister Zandi and their mother, Ntombi. Twala, Meyiwa’s friends, Mthokozisi Thwala and Tumelo Madlala and Kelly’s then four-year-old son Christian, were also in the house. Advocate Malesela Teffo, who is representing four of the men charged with Meyiwa’s murder, has claimed that the people who killed Meyiwa slept at his house after the incident. Twala said: “I want to tell him [Teffo] that he will never be an intellectual like advocate [Tembeka] Ngcukaitobi. Him using stupid gimmicks to gain popularity won’t take him anywhere. The man sent me more than six [of the] stupidest text messages I have ever seen from a lawyer. At first I thought he was a fake until I saw him in court representing the alleged Senzo Meyiwa killers.” When asked about his relationship with Kelly, Twala said it had become strained over the years. “God is my support system. I still live the normal life that I lived before Meyiwa died. I pray that God helps our justice system find the people who killed Senzo,” he said. Twala recently made news after he was apprehended and later released on bail for allegedly pointing a firearm at City Power officials. He has claimed it was a toy gun. “We resolved the issue three minutes after the arrival of their boss who later instructed them to open a case, which I welcomed. I was just protecting my electrical box – not that I went out of my way to attack the men,” he said. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.