The Limpopo department of employment and labour has closed a primary school in Musina after a health and safety inspector discovered an infestation of bats in some of its classrooms. In a statement on Monday, the department said the school was closed on Friday on the recommendation of an occupational health and safety (OHS) inspector. Limpopo provincial communication officer Lerato Mashamba said the inspector conducted a site visit earlier in the week and found that 50 pupils were absent due to illness linked to the bat infestation. “Educators alleged that snakes are killed on a weekly basis as they are attracted by the bats in the classrooms,” said Mashamba. “The school was found not to be compliant with the OHS Act 85 of 1993 as amended, which specifies that if the state of the building threatens or is likely to threaten the health and/or safety of persons, then the building should be prohibited with immediate effect from being occupied or continued [to be] used in terms of section 30 of the above said act.” According to Mashamba, the inspector has prohibited the use of the grade 4 classroom that has cracks at the doorpost overlapping to the grade 5 classroom. Classrooms for grades R, 1, 4, 5, 6, and 7, which were found to have bats on the roofs, have also been prohibited from accommodating pupils due to health and safety concerns. The department said the school building poses danger and may cause sickness, diseases, and possible death. A mobile classroom used by grade 2 pupils is still functional but the school will remain closed until structural defects have been repaired. Acting provincial inspector Reckson Tshitshivheli said the provincial government does not want to leave anything to chance, adding that health and safety is being prioritised. “Employers must make sure that at any given time they comply with OHS legislation. When they are not sure, they must call us for advocacy so we can assist them to get their house in order,” said Tshitshivheli. “Inspections are our day-to-day business. When we come across any life-threatening situations, we will unfortunately have to close the building. We commend our inspectors who do not compromise the health and safety of persons and encourage them to continue to do their jobs to mitigate non-compliance.” Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.