There may have been contamination at the scene where former Bafana Bafana skipper Senzo Meyiwa was murdered, the high court in Pretoria heard on Tuesday, as forensic police officer Thabo Mosia returned to the stand. Mosia told the court during cross-examination by defence advocate Malesela Teffo that Meyiwa’s killing was reported four hours late, adding that the address of the crime scene was not disclosed when the crime was reported. Mosia maintained that he does not believe the crime scene had been “tampered” with at the time of his arrival, but shared that the delay to respond could have “compromised” it. His testimony was in contrast to what he told the court on Monday that he did not believe the crime scene was contaminated. In a 2019 affidavit, which he read out in court, Mosia said the delays in reporting the matter to the relevant authorities could have “compromised the murder scene”. Questioning the forensic police officer’s credibility, Teffo asked if he was sure about his testimony and if he wanted to change his mind, to which Mosia said he was certain about his version of events. “Do you have a change of mind or not after reading this statement? You don’t suspect the crime scene was compromised?” asked Teffo. “At the time I was called to the crime scene, no, I did not believe so,” answered Mosia, telling the court that he was delayed because he was not given the address where Meyiwa had been killed. He added that he used his discretion and went to the police station to get the address. “I estimated that it took me 30-35 minutes to get to the crime scene.” Teffo raised concern that the forensic officer may be lying. “But from the police station to the crime scene, driving, is not even five minutes. What’s your comment?” asked Teffo, to which a shaken Mosia responded: “I have no comment.” But Teffo was not pleased with his answer, and reminded him that lying under oath is a criminal offence. “What instruction did Brigadier [Philani] Ndlovu [now deceased] give you when he called you?” Answered Mosia: “He said he was not in possession of an address of the crime scene, but I should go and get it at the police station.” But he contradicted himself when he also said he was instructed to go to the crime scene. Meyiwa was gunned down at the residence of his then-girlfriend and singer Kelly Khumalo in Vosloorus, east of Johannesburg on October 26 2014. The trial continues. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.