Social scientists who study developmental societies always look for visible signs to confirm that, indeed, there is change in the community. These symptoms include how education, health, jobs, housing and the general social fabric of the community develop in relation to the aspirations of the local population. For years I have reflected on these issues when thinking about the community of Orange Farm where I grew up, situated on the outskirts of Johannesburg. Like most townships, Orange Farm struggled without proper infrastructure when families settled there in the early 1980s. Today, the community faces the same challenges following the advent of democracy in 1994. The hope was that the last 28 years would have delivered relief to the residents, with better housing and basic services. Sadly, the area is still largely displaced, given its distance from Joburg and the youth often can’t take up work and learning opportunities, especially
given that it costs an average of R90 just to get to and from an interview. With no economic base of its own, it is dependent on Joburg and 85% of employed residents work in Joburg. Worse, Orange Farm has achieved notoriety because of the high rate of crime that has bedevilled the community for many years. But the youth have proven to be resilient as they hope to make a positive and fundamental change to their socio-economic circumstances. All they need is the opportunity to do so. Predictably, Orange Farm, like most townships, has had its fair share of challenges and struggles that chronicle the life of urban black communities. In its own way, it is a microcosm of township life where the youth have to learn to lift themselves by their bootstraps to break out of the rut of poverty and unemployment. As a product of this community, it is liberating to see how young people are setting up local businesses, improving their education and hustling in the streets, all to create a better future. This is what draws me back to this place I call home every weekend. It is a place of hope where people have learnt that the choices they make will determine their fate and future. It is for this reason that for the last six years, I have brought top speakers and businesspeople from various sectors to inspire the youth and demonstrate that their dreams can be realised. Last week, we hosted the 2nd EmpowaYouth Transformation Week at FarmersChris Hani Sports Complex, with more than 6 000 youth registered to attend (in-person and online) to listen to some of the country’s best minds. Delegates were exposed to insights on funding their businesses, requirements to succeed in the job market and how to navigate work by building resilience; as well as being exposed to hundreds of job, funding and learning opportunities. With nine stages and more than 150 speakers participating, and numerous private and public entities partnering to offer jobs, training and entrepreneurial funding, we can make a fundamental impact in the lives of the youth. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to escape some of the ravages that society and life in general throw at us, should contribute to ensure the next generation does not have to experience the same. It is my hope that this EmpowaYouth Week can be replicated in all communities in South Africa. There is no better time than the here and now for us to change and transform this country by unleashing the potential of every young person. Let’s bring to reality the words of our stalwart Oliver Reginald Tambo: “The fight for freedom must go on until it is won; until our country is free and happy and peaceful as part of the community of man, we cannot rest.”  • Masiza is CEO of Empoorx, a strategic creative marketing agency based in Johannesburg Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.