What started as a domestic dispute between Musa Ngema and his baby mama has now escalated into a criminal case against Ngema after he allegedly manhandled a police officer. Sunday World understands that the Generations: The Legacy actor, who plays the character of Mazwi Moroka, had a squabble with his ex-girlfriend who is the mother of his child on Sunday last week. The disagreement began when the two, who are co-parenting though they are no longer in a relationship,  got into a heated argument. The child had visited Ngema at the weekend and when he was supposed to return the child to the mother at about 5pm, he failed to do so.  The actor allegedly told the child’s mother he had car issues, so he could not return the child. The mother of his child then went to  Douglasdale police station in Fourways to report the matter. The police accompanied her and her mother to Ngema’s house to collect the child. A person who witnessed  the incident told Sunday World that when two policemen got to Ngema’s house in Jukskei Park, he refused to give the child back and stated that it was his child too. “When the police got to his house, he was with his current girlfriend. He then started hurling insults at the child’s mother and the child’s grandmother, and refused to hand the child over to them. “The police were left with no choice but to leave the child behind and advised the child’s mother  to open a custody case if she wants to have full custody of the child,” the witness said. Shortly after the incident, he  went to the police station, allegedly with the same car he said had given him problems earlier. Ngema then allegedly demanded to see one of the sergeants who was at his house. “When one of the officers came forward, he started insulting him at the police station and went on to manhandle him in front of his colleagues. “The police officer then walked away from the entire situation,” a police officer who saw the incident said. The sergeant has since opened a crimen injuria case against Ngema. Gauteng police spokesperson lieutenant-colonel Mavela Masondo confirmed a case has indeed been opened for further investigation. Attempts to get hold of Ngema proved futile. For the latest entertainment news from Sunday World, click here. Or read the latest from Shwashwi here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.