Mamelodi Sundowns may have won every trophy on offer in the domestic PSL and on the continent, but one championship title has so far eluded them – the lucrative Fifa Club World Cup – a milestone they hope to achieve in the not-too-distant future. As Masandawana gun for the local treble of the 2021/22 with the Nedbank Cup final against defending champions Marumo Gallants looming large on May 28, there is a feeling of despondency with their continental championship failure, despite bagging the MTN8 and the Premiership trophies at home. One of the most decorated Downs stars, brilliant midfielder Themba Zwane said though bowing out of the CAF Champions League in the quarterfinal stage and failure to qualify for the CAF Super Cup and the Fifa Club World Cup for the second time was now behind them, they will still have a shot at it again next season. Zwane, 32, popularly known as Mshishi to many for his on-field exploits, opened up about how they let themselves down when they were downed by Angolan outfit Petro de Luanda in their interim back yard, FNB Stadium, three weeks ago. “Yeah, our biggest goal and destination noe is the Fifa Club World Cup. It is the ultimate for us and when the time comes to compete at that tournament for the second time, and win it, it will be the huge achievement for me personally and the ultimate for the club and my teammates,” said the robust but humble midfield maestro. “We didn’t play well against Petro but most significantly, we let ourselves down in front of goal. We didn’t take our chances. “In the Champions League you face quality teams, and they will punish you, especially the north African Arabic teams, they are energetic, play a high- tempo game and move between the lines, like we do.” Under coach Pitso Mosimane, who is now at Egyptian giants Al Ahly, Zwane played in the Fifa Club World Cup after winning the CAF Champions League in 2016 with  a 3-1 aggregate victory over Cairo giants Zamalek in the final. However, they failed to win any of their games in the Club World Cup, suffering defeats against Kashima Antlers of Japan and South Korea’s Jeonbuk Hyundai. “It’s possible, I believe. We’ve been there before and as we are a mentally strong team, we are positive but we’re also learning as we go along, it’s a process,” said Zwane, who joined The Brazilians in 2011, a year before Mosimane was appointed their mentor. “The culture in the team is striving to win, to make history as achievers.” For the latest sports news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here