The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) would collaborate with Eskom to bring to book a number of people implicated in the capture of the power utility. This after the release of part four of the State Capture Report by Chief Justice Raymond Zondo on Friday last week. The report found that some Eskom officials were allegedly responsible for corruption at the power utility. Among those implicated in the capture of Eskom is former president Jacob Zuma and former public enterprises minister Lynne Brown. In his report, Zondo recommends that most of Eskom board of directors appointed in December 2014 be investigated and potentially prosecuted for their part in the capture of the power utility. In a joint statement on Friday, NPA spokesperson Mthunzi Mhaga said: “The NPA and Eskom agreed to enhance existing collaboration to ensure the most effective coordinated responses to serious crimes, including those stemming from the State Capture Commission of Inquiry. “This includes increasing the sharing of information and high-level and operational coordination while protecting the NPA’s independence and mandate.” Mhaga said the NPA, its investigative directorate and Eskom would ensure that the alleged perpetrators are held accountable, adding that the two entities had also agreed to collaborate on other crimes including cable theft and damage to essential infrastructure, which seriously hampered the daily operations at Eskom and other state-owned entities. Mhaga further stated that the power utility had already set up a project team backed by its lawyers to ensure that the State Capture Report is reviewed and understood to make sure that its recommendations carried out to protect Eskom’s interest. “Eskom commits to be readily available and to continue providing all assistance required to successfully prosecute these crimes,” said Mhaga. To read more political news and views, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 