The Alleluia Ministries International (AMI) church and its leader, prophet Alph Lukau, have donated food parcels worth millions of rands to thousands of people who were left homeless by the recent floods in Kwa-Zulu Natal. The devastating floods, among the worst to hit the province, left more than 400 people dead, several missing and caused untold damage to infrastructure after record-breaking rains battered parts of KwaZulu-Natal. AMI, as Lukau’s church is known, dispatched three loaded trucks packed to the brim with food parcels and donated them to the affected families. The food parcels, made up of bags of rice, mealie-meal, beans, fish and vegetables, among other items, were handed over to the victims by the church management to eThekwini executive mayor Mxolisi Kaunda last week. The handover, which took place in the absence of Lukau, who was in Portugal, was also attended by the chair of Gauteng legislature and former MEC for security and safety Sizakele Malobane, who applauded the church and its leaders. Malobane said the food parcels would go a long way to ease the pain of the families who were affected by the floods. Speaking from Portugal, Lukau said his church was touched by the plight of the victims after watching videos posted on social media. “The family stands together and the community lives with one another. What hurts one, hurts the other. In the recent past, we have all been saddened by the happenings in KwaZulu-Natal. The floods have taken lives, destroyed homes and property,” said Lukau. “As Alleluia Ministries, we have joined hands with those who have extended a helping hand, from the private sector and government alike, to help those in need and have set aside our little budgets to avail a token of assistance in terms of food parcels to help the families affected by the floods. “With the little token, we are saying to them, we are with you and we stand with you.” Also read: More financial aid comes in for KZN flood victims More pupils remain displaced following KZN deadly floods FoodForward calls on retailers to donate surplus foods for flood relief Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter and @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here.