The embattled vice-chancellor of the Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University (SMU), Peter Mbati, looks set to challenge the fairness of the processes followed by the portfolio committee in probing whether his appointment was procedural, among others. Mbati was appointed as vice-chancellor of SMU in June 2020, after a short stint at Botho University in Botswana. Parliament’s legal advisers on Friday told the legislators that Mbati had raised several concerns after he was furnished with the preliminary inquiry report into his appointment. The legal advisers said Mbati had replied to the draft report, and stated his displeasure at the “soft approach to all the witnesses who made unsubstantiated allegations” against him, by the committee. “He [Mbati] urges the committee to correct the wrong conclusions it had arrived at, or otherwise he [will] pursue them at an appropriate forum… [He] notes that the committee has ignored the submissions he has made so as to engender its biased submission. He will subject the report to a review if the committee doesn’t reconsider,” said Mamphago Modiba, content adviser in parliament. The legislators are probing allegations of wasteful expenditure when Mbati was the head honcho at the University of Venda (Univen). At the heart of the probe are claims of maladministration relating to the procurement process for infrastructure projects at the university. One of the allegations also levelled against Mbati is that of sexual harassment when he was the vice-chancellor of Univen, where he served two terms from 2008 to 2018. The sexual harassment case was also reported to the police. However, the National Prosecuting Authority did not see reasonable prospects for a successful prosecution. The committee researcher in December briefed the committee on its observations and findings, which include the following: The committee in February approved the preliminary oversight enquiry report. It was then agreed that it would be circulated to affected parties and three weeks would be given for comments and disputes. Attempts to contact Mbati were unsuccessful. For more education news from Sunday World, click here. Follow @SundayWorldZA on Twitter @sundayworldza on Instagram, or like our Facebook Page, Sunday World, by clicking here for the latest breaking news in South Africa. To Subscribe to Sunday World, click here. 